## Slide 1

钻井英语日报详解DDR of QH-1

### 第一讲


---

## Slide 2

课程大纲

见 Excel 表格

---

## Slide 3

上课时间

每周三晚9点

每周六晚7点， 均为北京时间

每节课1-1.5小时，课程中间有问题就随时讨论

一定要记好笔记，有问题及时提出

课前积极预习单词表，课下认真复习和练习


---

## Slide 4

本单元的词汇表

| Field 现场/油田 | Block 区块 | Platform 平台 | Slot 井槽 |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Operator 作业者 | Latitude 纬度 | Longitude  经度 | MSL (mean sea level)
平均海平面 |
| RKB (rotary kelly bushing)
转盘面 | UWI (Unique Well Identifier）
井唯一识别号 | elevation 海拔 | spud  开钻 |
| AFE (Authorization For Expenditure) 预算 | Personnel 人员 | NPT (Non productive time) 非生产时间 | RWI (restricted work injury) 工作受限伤害 |
| LTI (lost time injury)
损失工时伤害 | ROP (rate of penetration)
机械钻速 | forcast 预报 | day rate  日费 |
| function test 功能测试 | toolpusher 带班队长 | rectify 改正 | accumulator 储能器 |
| unload 卸载 | loggging 测井 | vessel 船只 | bulk 散装料 |
| barite 重晶石 | bentonite 膨润土 | Class G cement
G级水泥 | potable 可饮用的 |

---

## Slide 5

本单元的词汇表

| saver sub 防保接头 | HWDP heavy weight drill pipe
加重钻杆 | derrick 井架 | transvers 横向移动 |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| starboard 右舷 | BHA bottom hole assembly
底部钻具组合 | PJSM 作业前安全会 | NMDC non magnetic drill collar 无磁钻铤 |
| spiral 螺旋的 | connection 接头 | pulse 脉冲 | survey 测斜 |
| sweep 清扫液 | RIH run in hole 下钻 | RPM rotation per minute 转/分钟 | SPP standpipe pressure
立管压力 |
| WOB weight on bit 钻压 | hook load 大钩悬重 | jet 喷射 | section 井段 |
| TD total depth 完钻深度 | hi-vis 高粘 | circulate 循环 | wiper trip 通井 |
| condition mud 调节泥浆 | tight hole 井眼缩径 | pack off 堵塞 | displace 顶替 |
| pad mud 垫浆 | POOH pull out of hole 起钻 | rack back 立回 | stabilizer 稳定器 |
| MWD measurement while drilling 随钻测量 | bit 钻头 | conductor 导管 | TBT toolbox talk 工具箱会议 |

---

## Slide 6

本单元的词汇表

| elevator 吊卡 | spider 卡瓦式…… | belt tong 带钳 | float shoe 浮鞋 |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| landing string 联顶节 | MD measured depth 斜深 | TVD true vertical depth 垂深 | L/D lay down 甩下 |
| rig down 拆卸 | CTU conductor tensioning unit 导管拉伸装置 | stab in 插入 | adapter 接合器 |
| centralizer 扶正器 | cementing 固井 | space out 使间隔开 | annulus 环空 |
| slack off 下压 | bottom up （循环）周期 | concurrently 同时地 | rig up 组装 |
| FOSV full open safety valve 旋塞安全阀 | slurry 水泥浆 | bleed off 泄压 |  |
|  |  |  |  |

### 动词 + 名词

---

## Slide 7

Header of Drilling Daily Report (DDR)钻井日报的基础信息

见Excel报表格式

---

## Slide 8

Time Log 时间记录表

| Elapsed 
Time(hr) | Comments |
| --- | --- |
| 12.00 | Rig accepted and placed on day rate effective 1st Jan 2023 00:00 hrs.
lump sum operation rate, reduced rate, zero rate
Repair leaking BOP control line fittings.
- Tighten leaking control lines on BOP.
- Continue laying out 18-5/8" casing.
- Perform 18-3/4" BOP function test from toolpusher office.
- Observe control lines connected incorrectly. 
- Swap hoses to rectify.
- Perform accumulator system integrity test.
- Bunkering fuel.
- Deck management.
- Organize decks to accommodate 18-5/8" casing.
- Unload logging tools from vessel.

Transfer bulks:
Barite 100 MT，  Bentonite 60 MT，Class G cement 150 MT
Drill water 500 m3，Fuel 300 m3，Potable water 500 m3 |

---

## Slide 9

Jack Up Rig

---

## Slide 10

| Elapsed 
Time(hr) | Comments |
| --- | --- |
| 6.00 | Change out saver sub and prepare for drilling operations.
- Remove 5-1/2” FH saver sub.
- Install and torque 6-5/8" REG saver sub.
- Pick up stand of 6-5/8" HWDP from derrick and run in hole. (校准转盘中心)
- Transverse drilling package 4" to starboard.
- Rack back stand of 6-5/8" HWDP.
- Prepare drill floor for drilling operations. |
| 18.00 | Planned fatigue management. |
| 7.50 | Pick up and make up 36" Drilling BHA
- Held PJSM with crew prior to picking up BHA.
- 36' Milled tooth bit.
- Bit sub
- 35-3/4" String Stab.
- 9-1/2" NMDC Pony
- 35-3/4" String Stab.
- Telescope 900
- 3x 9-1/2" Spiral drill collars.
- 1x 6-5/8" HWDP. |

---

## Slide 11

| Elapsed 
Time(hr) | Comments |
| --- | --- |
| 2.00 | Conduct shallow hole test and prepare drilling fluid.
- Make up a connection.
- Shallow pulse test with directional tools 
- Survey 0.5 degrees.
- Prepare drilling fluid, spotting fluid and sweeps.
- RIH from 50m to 90m |
| 0.5 | Jet / drill 36" hole from 90m to 100m with 0 RPM & 2000 l/m, 2Mpa SPP on btm, 2 kdaN WOB,
- Hook Load - 80 kdaN up, 83 kdaN down & 81 kdaN free rotating weight. |
| 14.00 | Rotary drill 36" hole from 100m to section TD 180m
- Take survey and pump 12m3 hi-vis sweep every 10m drilled. |
| 1.00 | Circulate and condition the hole prior to wiper trip.
- Condition mud. Pump 30m3 of Hi-Vis Sweep.
- When circulating observed tight hole at 160m. Work through tight spot.
- Attempted to conduct survey, observed signs of pack off  while surveying.
- Resumed working string and cleaning hole. 
- Pumped another 12m3 of Hi-Vis sweep.
- Displace well to 1.2SG pad mud. |

---

## Slide 12

| Elapsed 
Time(hr) | Comments |
| --- | --- |
| 1.00 | Wiper trip to 10m below seabed and run back to bottom
- Pre-Job safety with crew prior to wiper trip.
- No tight spots observed. |
| 0.50 | Circulate and condition the hole prior to POOH
- Pump 30m3 of Hi-Vis Sweep and displace well to 1.2SG pad mud |
| 5.50 | Trip out of hole to surface.
- Unable to rack back BHA due to weight.
- Break out and laid down stabilizers.
- Break out and laid down MWD survey tool.
- Broke bit off and leave on rig floor.
- Clean up rig floor. |
| 1.00 | Rig up 30" Conductor handling tools.
- Hold TBT meeting with all involved in task.
- Pick up and install elevators and spider.
- Prepare belt tongs and casing handling equipment. |

---

## Slide 13

| Elapsed 
Time(hr) | Comments |
| --- | --- |
| 6.50 | Make up and run 30" 310 lb/ft X56 conductor.
- Pick up float shoe joint and test same.(auto fill disengaged).
- Shoe joint
- 8 Joints of R3 conductor.
- 1 starter head joint.
- 2 joints of landing string.
- Tagged bottom at 179m ( 1m of fill).
- Set at 178m MD. (set conductor in CTU) |
| 2.00 | Trip out of hole and L/D landing string.
- Rig down conductor handling equipment. |
| 3.75 | Rig up 5-1/2" handling equipment and trip in hole cement stab in assembly.
- Make up Stab-in adapter to 5-1/2" DP.
- Install centralizers on DP and trip in hole to 176m.
- Install cementing assembly at 177m and space out. |
| 1.00 | Circulate and condition well.
- Establish circulation up 5-1/2" DP x 30" conductor annulus  with seawater .
- Cease pumping and stab in to 30" conductor shoe, Slack off 10 kdaN.
- Break circulation with seawater & circulate 2 x  bottoms up 
- No returns observed from 30" conductor.
- Concurrently rig up cementing equipment. |

---

## Slide 14

---

## Slide 15

| Elapsed 
Time(hr) | Comments |
| --- | --- |
| 1.25 | Cement 30" conductor.
- Rig up cementing line.
- Break circulation and pressure test cementing line. Good test.
- Close upper FOSV on cementing assembly and pressure up to 3Mpa.
- Mix and pump 28m3 of 1.89SG Class G cement slurry .
- Displace inner cementing string with 1m3 seawater.
- Bleed off and check float (good) 50 liters returns. |
| 0.5 | Circulate and flush 5-1/2" inner string
- Rig down cementing line and lay out cementing assembly.
- Sting out of conductor shoe & drop foam ball.
- Circulate 2x string volume with seawater taking returns up  5-1/2" DP x 30" conductor annulus. |
| 2.00 | Pull out of hole with 5-1/2" inner cementing string.
- Pull out of hole with 5-1/2" DP inner string, rack back same.
- Remove DP centralizers and break stab-in adaptor.
- Break down cementing assembly.
- Clean and clear rig floor. |
| 4.00 | Lay down 36" drilling assembly.
- Pre-Job safety meeting with all personnel.
- Change elevator inserts to 6 5/8".
- Break and lay down 36" drilling assembly components. |

---

## Slide 16

Offshore Cementing Unit


---

## Slide 17

Shallow Gas 浅层气

Shallow gas is defined as any hydrocarbon-bearing zone which may be encountered at a depth close to the surface or mudline. Generally it is not possible to close-in and contain a gas influx from a shallow zone because weak formation integrity may lead to breakdown and broaching to surface / mudline.

This situation is particularly hazardous when drilling from a fixed installation or jack-up.

Shallow gas-bearing zones are usually normally pressured. However, the effective increase in pore pressure due to gas gradient can lead to underbalance when a shallow gas zone is first penetrated.

---

## Slide 18

Diverter Procedures While Drilling Top Hole

### At first sign of flow:

1. DO NOT stop pumping

2. OPEN diverter line to divert/close diverter (both functions should be interlocked;

3. INCREASE pump strokes to maximum (DO NOT exceed maximum pump speed recommended by the manufacturer or maximum pressure allowed by relief valve)

4. SWITCH suction on mud pumps to heavy mud in the reserve pit. ZERO stroke counter.

5. RAISE alarm and ANNOUNCE emergency using the PA system and/or INFORM the rig superintendent. POST personnel to look for gas (Jack-up)

6. If the well appears to have stopped flowing after the heavy mud has been displaced STOP pumps and OBSERVE well

7. If the well appears to continue to flow after the heavy mud has been pumped CARRY ON pumping from the active system and PREPARE water in a pit for pumping and/or CONSIDER preparing pit with heavier mud. When all mud has been consumed, SWITCH pumps to water. DO NOT stop pumping for as long as the well continues to flow.

---

## Slide 19

Shallow Gas General Drilling Guidelines

Consideration shall be given to drilling a pilot hole with the 8 ½” or smaller bit size when drilling explorations wells. The BHA design shall include a float valve.

### The ROP shall be controlled to avoid overloading the annulus with cuttings and inducing losses.

All losses shall be cured prior to drilling ahead. Drilling blind or with losses requires the approval from Head of Operations.

Pump pressure shall be closely monitored and all connections (on jack-up) shall be flow checked.

### Pipe shall be pumped out of hole at a moderate rate to prevent swabbing.

---
