## Slide 1

钻井英语日报详解DDR of QH-1

第11讲

---

## Slide 2

Basic Mud Logging录井基础

---

## Slide 3

词汇表

| theory 理论 | lag time 迟到时间 | logistical 后勤的 | modeling 建模 |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| SOP standard Operating Procedure
标准操作程序 |  | FE Formation Evaluation
地层评价 | semi-sub
半潜式钻机 |
| substructure 底座 | crown block 天车 | traveling block 游车 | mixing hopper 
混浆漏斗 |
| agitator 搅拌器 | thread protector 护丝 | impregnated bit 孕镶钻头 | under reamer 扩眼器 |
| bumper sub 下击短节 | synthetic 合成的 | swelling 膨胀的 | sloughing 脱落的 |
| perforate 射孔 | acidize 酸化 | fracturing 压裂 | undergauge 缩径 |
| overgauge 井眼扩大 | drilling break 钻进放空 | trip sheet起下钻灌浆表 | intrinsic safety 本质安全 |
| ionization 离子化 | PVT pit volume totalizer
泥浆液面监测仪 | regulator 自动调节器 | caving 掉块 |

---

## Slide 4

词汇表

| sieving 筛滤 | angular 有棱角的 | sediment 沉积物 | dolomite 白云岩 |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| limestone 灰岩 | grainstone 颗粒岩 | fossil 化石 | condensate 凝析油 |
| overbalance 过平衡 | underbalance 欠平衡 | viscosity 粘度 | trip gas 后效气 |
| carbide 电石 | digital 数字的 | analog 模拟的 | optional 可选的 |
|  |  |  |  |
|  |  |  |  |
|  |  |  |  |
|  |  |  |  |

---

## Slide 5

Content

Well Planning 井的设计

Rig Types & Components 钻机类型与组成

Drilling Fluid (Mud) 钻井液（泥浆）

Rig Process 钻井程序

Mud Logging Definition 录井的定义

Mud Logging Theory and Lag 录井理论与迟到时间

Sample Collection and Description 岩屑样本采集与描述

Gas System 气体系统

Sensors 传感器

---

## Slide 6

Well Planning

Operating Company (Operator)

Drilling Contractor

Drilling Service Companies (Service Partners)

Drilling fluids, D&M, Cementing, Mud Logging, Wireline, etc…

### Logistical Support Services

Helicopter, supply boat, onshore transportation, (Operator’s responsibility)

Drilling Program

### SOP (Standard Operating Procedure) , Well specific drilling procedure

### Bit, BHA, BOP, Operating Steps, Limits of Parameters, Trajectory, FE requirements, etc..

Mud Program, Cementing Program, Wellhead Procedure, DrillMap

### Modelings: hydraulic, torque&drag, vibrations, Jar Analysis, etc…


---

## Slide 7

Rig Types

Land Rig

Offshore Rig

Jack up

### Semi-Submerisible (semi-sub)

Drill Ship

Platform Rig


---

## Slide 8

Land Rig Components

Mast / Derrick

### Substructure

V-door, Catwalk

Monkey Board

### Crown Block

### Traveling Block and Hook

TDS (Top Drive System)

Elevators, Slips, Tongs

### Mud tanks, mixing hopper,  Agitator

Solid Control Equipment

………



---

## Slide 9

Drill String

Drill Pipe, Heavy Weight Drill Pipe (HWDP), Drill Collar

### Thread protector, thread dope, dope brush, hollow drift

### Rock bit (MT, TCI), PDC bit, Impregnated bit, Hybrid bit

### Stabilizer, roller reamer, under reamer, hole opener

Jar (Mechanical, Hydraulic, Hybrid), Accelerator

Motor, MWD, RSS, NMDC

### Subs: bit sub, shock sub, bumper sub, bent sub, float sub, circ sub


---

## Slide 10

Rig Personnel

Company man, Drilling Supervisor

Rig manager, OIM

Tool Pusher

Driller, Assistant Driller

Derrickman

Roughneck / Floorman

Rig mechanic, electrician, STO (HSEO), Technician

Motor man, welder, medic, cook, crane operator

Mud engineer, mud labor, mud logger

DD, MWD, Well Placement Engineer


---

## Slide 11

Drilling Fluid (Mud)

Function:

Clean the bottom of the hole

Cool the bit and lubricate the drill stem

Transport cuttings to surface

Support the wall of hole

Prevent entry of formation fluids into the well

Signal transmission

Type

Water Based Mud

Oil Based Mud

### Synthetic Based Mud / Non-Aqueous Fluid (NAF)



---

## Slide 12

Rig Process

Drilling

Tripping

Casing and Cementing

Stuck Pipe (Differential Sticking, hole cleaning, swelling shale, sloughing shale, key seating, undergauge hole, plastic salts)

Fishing

Wireline Logging

### Perforating

Well Testing (Drill Stem Test, DST)

### Acidizing

### Fracturing

Install BOP/Wellhead/XMT (Christmas Tree)

---

## Slide 13

Roles of Mud Logging


采集岩屑，地质描述并检查

监测碳氢化合物气体

探测硫化氢气体

监测钻井液体积

获取数据，生成录井图表和终完报告

监测钻井参数，报告异常

向司钻通报任何钻进放空

监测起下钻并更新起下钻表


Collection the rock cuttings which is geologically described, and examined.

Hydrocarbon gas monitoring while operations

Detection of the Hydrogen sulfide (H2S) gas

Monitoring of the drill fluid volume (loss/gain)

Generation of mud logs and graphs, acquisition of the data and producing a final well report

Monitoring of the drilling parameters. And to inform the personnel in charge about any anomalies

### Confirming with the driller about any drilling breaks.

### Monitoring the trips and updating a trip sheet


---

## Slide 14

TYPES OF MUD LOGGING UNITS

Mud logging units can be classified into two main categories depending on the method of data acquisition and processing:-

Off-line mud logging units

On-line mud logging units

Minimum human interference

Fully computerized service with powerful software

Best possible equipment design in the industry:

### Intrinsic safety

---

## Slide 15

MUD LOGGING ON-LINE UNIT EQUIPMENT

1- Geological equipment -Microscope显微镜 - Fluoroscope荧光镜 - Auto Calcimeter碳酸计  - shale density meter 页岩密度计

2- Remote pump stroke counters

3- Multi-channel, high resolution chart recorders

### 4- Flame ionization 离子化 hydrocarbon gas detector (FID)

5- Flame ionization gas chromatograph色层分离谱(C1 - C5)

6- Drill monitor panel

7- Depth - WOB - RPM - Torque

8- Pressure detection system standpipe pressure (SPP), Casing pressure

### 9- Pit volume totalizer （PVT）

10- Mud weight (in and out)

11- CRT (continuous real time) information system

---

## Slide 16

MUD LOGGING ON-LINE UNIT EQUIPMENT

12- Mud temperature (in and out)

13- Mud resistivity (in and out)

14- Mud conductivity (in and out)

15- H2

16- CO2

17- PC computers (on-line & off-line)

18- Mud flow sensors (in and out)

19- Central air-conditioning units

### 20- Unit voltage regulator

21- Uninterruptable power supply (UPS)

---

## Slide 17

---

## Slide 18

这是什么作业类型？

Drilling 钻进

Tripping In/Out 起下钻

Pumping In/Out 开泵起下

Back reaming 倒划眼

Reaming down 向下划眼

---

## Slide 19

MUD LOGGING THEORY & LAG

The mud logging theory is based on the mud cycle principal. The mud is sucked from the pits (Active Pit) and pumped via the drilling string down to the hole bottom. The mud is then pumped against gravity through the annulus up  to the shakers.

The time necessary to get the drilled samples to the surface is exactly the time required to pump the mud volume through this passage. This is calculated and is known as Lag time or Lag Strokes

The time taken between the surface to the bottom of the hole is called ”lag down“ or “Lag in”.

The time taken between the bottom of the hole to  the surface is called ”lag-up“ or “bottom up”.

The surface-to-surface time is called  “Complete cycle” or In/Out time.

---

## Slide 20

Lag Equations

---

## Slide 21

Trip Monitoring 起下钻监测

TRIP-IN MONITORING PROCEDURES

1. Calculate metal displacement 钻具排替量 for each string section.

2. Trip tank should receive the displaced mud.

---

## Slide 22

TRIP-OUT MONITORING PROCEDURES

---

## Slide 23

Sample description 样本描述

Drilled cuttings are often referred to as “Ditch Samples”

The following procedure is recommended:

The samples are laid out in a stack of five-cell trays, with the depths marked on the trays.

The cuttings should just cover the bottoms of the trays.

### It is sometimes desirable to separate the obvious cavings by either sieving or dry panning.

Attention should generally be focused on the smaller cuttings with angular shape and fresh appearance.  A standard practice to scan 100 or  more feet of samples, observing the lithological “breaks”.

---

## Slide 24

Order of written description

### For Clastic Rocks:- Sand/sandstone/siltstone/clay/shale, etc.

First: Color 颜色

Second: Grain size, sorting then grain shape 晶体尺寸，分类，晶体形状

Third: Hardness

Fourth: Cement and/or matrix materials.

Fifth: Fossils and accessories

Sixth: Sedimentary structures.

Seventh:Porosity and oil shows.

Example: Sst: Lithic, bu-wh , f -med , mod srtd, ang ,occ/ sub ang, hard, arg , mica , pyr, fr intgran por , gd stn , gd cut fluor.

---

## Slide 25

Order of written description

### For Non-Clastic Rocks: Evaporites/limestone/dolomite/chert, etc.

First: Color

Second: Crystallinity

Third: hardness.

Fourth: Cement and/or matrix materials.

Fifth: Fossils and accessories.

Sixth: Porosity and oil shows.

Example: Ls:  Wh, off wh, occ/ mlky wh, cryptoxln-microxln, md hd-hd, sli arg, , dol in pts, rr foss, no vis por, no oil shows.

---

## Slide 26

### Rock Types

A proper recording of rock type, consists of two fundamental parts: The basic rock name: e.g. Dolomite, Limestone, Sandstone, and the proper compositional or textural classification  term: e.g., lithic, oolitic grainstone, etc.

### Color

Color of rocks may be a mass effect of the colors of the constituent grains, or result from the color of cement or matrix, or staining of these. Colors may occur in combinations and patterns, e.g. mottled, banded, spotted, variegated.

It is recommended that colors be described on wet samples under ten-power magnification.

It is important to use the same source of light all the time, and use constant magnification for all routine logging.

General terms such as dark grey, medium brown, etc., generally suffice. However, if more concise designation is required, rock-color chart may be used.

---

## Slide 27

### Texture 质地

Texture is a function of the size, shape and arrangement of the component elements of a rock.

1. Grain or crystal sizes:

Size grades and sorting of sediments are important attributes. They have a direct bearing on porosity and permeability, and may be a reflection of the environment in which a sediment was deposited.

2. Grain Shape

Shape of grains has long been used to indicate the history of a deposit of which the grains are a part.

Shape involves both sphericity and  roundness.

A) Sphericity:

B) Roundness: Angular, Subangular, Subrounded, Rounded, Well Rounded

---

## Slide 28

Hydrocarbon shows 烃显

HYDROCARBONS

PETROLEUM

OIL: Petroleum in the liquid state, normally called crude oil.

### CONDENSATE

NATURAL GAS

WET GAS: Natural gas which contains more than  0.3 gallon of condensate per 1,000 cubic feet of gas.

DRY GAS: Gas containing less than 0.1 gallon of condensate per 1,000 cubic feet.

SOLID PETROLEUM:  general name for various solid or semi-solid hydro- carbon mixtures such as bitumen, asphalt, residuum, etc.

---

## Slide 29

Gas System 气测录井

### General factors affecting the size of a gas show:

Amount of hydrocarbons present in the formation.

Type of hydrocarbons present

Porosity and permeability of the formation.

### Mud weight overbalance (or underbalance) and amount of flushing.

Mud flow rate.

### Mud properties, specifically viscosity.

Mud temperature.

Mud type in use.

Hole size.

Rate of penetration.

Type of bit: affecting size of cuttings and amount of cuttings gas released into the mud.

Efficiency of gas trap, sample line and gas detectors.

---

## Slide 30

Types of Recorded Gases

Cuttings gas (formation gas) 岩屑气

Background gas 背景气

Trip gas 后效气

Connection gas 接头气

Circulation gas  循环气

Carbide gas 电石气

---

## Slide 31

Gas Detection Equipment 气体探测设备

Gas Trap Assembly 气体收集器

Total Gas Detector 全烃探测仪

Gas Chromatograph 气体色谱仪

FID Gas Detector 火焰离子气体探测仪

---

## Slide 32

---

## Slide 33

数字信号

-深度

泵冲

转盘速度

模拟信号

大钩悬重

扭矩

立管压力

转盘速度

罐区体积

流出排量

泥浆温度

泥浆密度

泥浆导电性

室温气体



---
