## Slide 1

钻井英语日报详解DDR of QH-1

第12讲

---

## Slide 2

Drill 12-1/4” Hole

---

## Slide 3

本单元的词汇表

| capacity 容量 | swtich 开关 | recharge 重新充 | gear box 变速箱 |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| slew 转向 | drag chain 牵引链 | diagnose 诊断 | obstruction 障碍物 |
| homogeneous 均质的 | breakover 导通 | fault 错误 | module 模块 |
| filter 滤芯 | assist 辅助 | cylinder 圆筒 | hollow drift 空心通井规 |
| temporary 临时的 | blackout 断电 | clogging 堵塞 | overheat 过热 |
| suction screen 吸入口滤网 | BSR blind/shear rams
全封剪切闸板 | BCFT BOP Control Function Test
封井器功能测试 |  |
| UPR Upper Pipe Rams
上闸板 | LPR Lower Pipe Rams
下闸板 | MPR Middle Pipe Rams
中间闸板 | HCR Hydraulic Control Remote
液动阀 |
|  |  |  |  |
|  |  |  |  |

---

## Slide 4

| Elapsed
Time (hr) | Comments |
| --- | --- |
| 9.25 | Picked up and RIH with 12-1/4" RSS drilling BHA.
- Trip drills held with both crews prior to and while picking up BHA.
- Pick up and make up 12-1/4" BHA
SIMOPS:
- Conducted Accumulator closing unit pump capacity test.
- Removed accumulators from service and switched pumps off.
- Bled the pressure down in the manifold to 0 MPa.
- Placed HCV in open position and annular in close position.
- Turned on 1 pump at a time and recorded recharge time.
- Pump # 1 - 60 sec to 10 MPa.
- Pump # 2 - 58 sec to 10 MPa.
- Both pumps passed with no issues. |
| 4.00 | Planned rig maintenance prior to drill out.
- Ran in hole with 1 x 5-1/2" DP stand and made up FOSV.
- Conducted planned maintenance.
- Service and grease wash pipe. Service TDS. Checked oil in gear box.
- Service Hydra racker. Correct hydra racker slew. Causing trip out when picking up pipe.
- Repair hydra drag chain.
- Service Hydra tong.
- Re-align well center.
- Diagnose clamp pressure issues.
- Found leak causing issue to be repaired in future.
- Grease and prepare C/K manifold for pressure testing. |

---

## Slide 5

| Elapsed
Time (hr) | Comments |
| --- | --- |
| 4.25 | RIH with 12-1/4" drilling BHA picking up 8-1/4" DC from cantilever.
- Hold PJSM with DD, MWD, and crew.
- Pick up and make up 11 x 8-3/4" DC from cantilever.
- Run in hole from 182' to 474'.
- Monitor well on trip tank.
- Well static. |
| 12.00 | RIH with 12-1/4" drilling BHA.
- Continue to RIH with 12-1/4" BHA to xxx m.
- Shallow hole test MWD tools.
- Good Test.
- Continue to RIH with 12-1/4" BHA.
- Washed down from xxxx to xxxx.
- Tagged TOC @ xxxx m with 5 kdaN. |
| 3.00 | Pressure tested TDS equipment.
-  Rig up side entry, FOSV & test hose to TDS.
- Pressure tested upper and lower IBOP & kelly hose.
- Pressure 2.5/35 MPa for 5 min each.
- Good test.
- Rigged down all pressure test equipment. |

---

## Slide 6

| Elapsed
Time (hr) | Comments |
| --- | --- |
| 1.75 | Power choke drill with rig crew.
- Shut well in and performed choke drill with all crew members.
- Recorded SCR's with 1.12SG mud.
- MP1: 20/30/40 stks - x/x/x Mpa.
- MP2: 20/30/40 stks -  x/x/x Mpa.
- MP3: 20/30/40 stks -  x/x/x Mpa. |
| 5.00 | Drilled out shoe track and cleaned out shoe/rathole.
- Make stand and RIH to top of cement at xxxx m.
- Drilled cement & float shoe from xxxx to xxxx.
- Reamed shoe/rathole 3 x to ensure no obstructions.
- Drill ahead 5m of new formation from xxxx to xxxx. |
| 1.25 | Circulated 2 bottoms up & confirm formation.
- Circulated hole while reciprocating from xxxx to xxxx.
- Ensured homogenous 1.12SG WBM in & out |
| 1.00 | Line up to Perform LOT.
- Pull back inside casing & rack back stand to xxxx m.
- Install side entry/FOSV testing assembly on drill string.
- Make up TDS & space out. Install surface line on side entry.
- Flush through testing assembly & kill line.
- Flush through drill string, choke & kill line from cement unit.
- 2.5/28MPa for 5/5 mins. Good test. |

---

## Slide 7

| Elapsed
Time (hr) | Comments |
| --- | --- |
| 2.50 | Perform LOT.
- Flush through choke & kill lines, & perform LOT.
- Close pipe rams & pump 150 lpm.
- Pump a total of 0.41m3.
- Breakover pressure 5.18MPa.
- 10 sec ISIP – 4.89Mpa.
- Min leak off gradient achieved.
- EMW: 1.38SG.
- 0.36m3 bled back. |
| 8.75 | Drill 12-1/4" hole section from xxxx to xxxx.
- Drilling Parameters:
- ROP: 20 - 40 m/hr (avg ROP - 13 m/hr).
- Flow: xxxx - xxxx lpm.
- SPP: xx – xx Mpa.
- SWOB:  kdaN. - DWOB:  kdaN.
- Rotary: 60 - 160 rpm.
- STorque: kN-m. - DTorque: kN-m
- MW: 1.13 SG. - ECD: 1.16SG.
- Background Gas:  %.
- PU/SO/FRW: ?/? /? kdaN
- Off-bottom torque:  kN-m. |

---

## Slide 8

| Elapsed
Time (hr) | Comments |
| --- | --- |
| 3.25 | Trip out 2 stands, troubleshoot topdrive faults, trip back to xxxx m.
- Pump out of hole from xxxx to xxxx.
- Perform maintenance on the topdrive checking temperature alarms.
- Change out Bartec module.
- Wash back in from xxxx to xxxx.
- Monitor well on trip tank.
- Well static. |
| 0.75 | Trip back to the shoe to troubleshoot topdrive.
- Unable to drill ahead due to topdrive faults.
- Trip out of the hole from xxxx to xxxx.
- Monitor well on trip tank.
- Well static. |
| 6.75 | Troubleshoot & repair topdrive fault.
- Change out topdrive lube oil & filters.
- Electrician test & perform electrical checks on junction box modules.
- Replace Bartec module on the topdrive junction box & test
- Monitor well on trip tank.
- Well static. |

---

## Slide 9

| Elapsed
Time (hr) | Comments |
| --- | --- |
| 2.00 | Topdrive repair complete & trip back to bottom.
- Hold PJSM with crews.
- Test topdrive with drilling parameters prior to tripping into open hole.
- Trip in the hole on the elevators from xxxx to xxxx.
- Make up topdrive & wash in from xxxx to xxxx.
- Monitor well on trip tank.
- Well static. |
|  | Drill 12-1/4" hole section from xxxx to section TD at xxxx m.
(note: record SCR’s as per requirement)
Offline: pick up & rack back 6-5/8” HWDP |
|  | Circulate well clean & condition mud.
- Circulate 1 x bottoms up well while reciprocating from xxxx to xxxx.
- Circulating parameters:
- Flow: 
- SPP: 
- Rotary: 
- Torque: |

Foxhole,全自动接钻杆系统

---

## Slide 10

| Elapsed
Time (hr) | Comments |
| --- | --- |
| 2.00 | - Obtain parameters for 9 5/8'' liner run at xxxx m (section TD).
- String weights with pumps on:
- PU/SO/FRW: ?/?/? kdaN.
- String weights with pumps off:
- PU/SO/FRW: ?/?/? kdaN.
- Torque values with pumps on.
- Pump rate: xxxx lpm.
- SPP: x MPa.
- Rotary: 10/20/30 rpm.
- STOR: ?/?/? k-Nm.
- Torque values with pumps off.
- Rotary: 10/20/30 rpm.
- STOR: ?/?/? k-Nm.
- Rack back second stand & circulate second bottoms up while reciprocating from xxxx to xxxx. |
| 1.00 | Circulate well clean & condition mud.
- Rack back 3rd stand & circulate third bottoms up while reciprocating from xxxx to xxxx.
- Circulating parameters:
- Flow: xxxx lpm.
- SPP: xx Mpa.
- Rotary: xx rpm.
- Torque: x kNm.
- Observe cuttings reduction at the shakers. |

---

## Slide 11

| Elapsed
Time (hr) | Comments |
| --- | --- |
| 3.25 | Trip out of the hole on elevators with 12-1/4" RSS BHA.
- Conduct 15 min flow check  - well static.
- Trip out of the hole with 12-1/4" BHA from xxxx to xxxx on 5-1/2" DP.
- Trip speed - 2 min/stand.
- Rack back 5-1/2" DP.
- No hole issues encountered. |
| 0.75 | Obtain parameters at xxxx (liner hanger depth) & flow check.
- String weights with pumps on:
- PU/SO/FRW:.
- String weights with pumps off:
- PU/SO/FRW:.
- Torque values with pumps on.
- Pump rate: 
- SPP: 
- Rotary: 10/20/30 rpm.
- STOR: 
- Torque values with pumps off.
- Rotary: 10/20/30 rpm.
- STOR: 
- Conduct 15 min flow check inside casing shoe at xxxx- well static. |

---

## Slide 12

| Elapsed
Time (hr) | Comments |
| --- | --- |
| 16.00 | Repair well center Hydratong.
- Hold PJSM for repair on Hydratong.
- Assist maintenance department carry out repairs to the NOV Hydratong.
- Change out upper jaw cylinder & hydraulic manifold on Hydratong.
- No success with completing the repair.
- Monitor well on trip tank- well static. |
| 1.50 | Circulate bottoms up.
- Hold PJSM with all personnel involved in tripping out of the hole with the use of manual rig tongs.
- Prepare rig floor.
- Circulating parameters:
- Pump rate:
- SPP: 
- PU/SO: 
- Drop 2-7/8" hollow drift. |
| 1.50 | Rig temporary blackout due to engine cooling system filters clogging.
- Rig power generators shut down due to overheating.
- Clean seawater main line suction screens.
- Power up rig.
- Monitor well on the active - well static. |

---

## Slide 13

| Elapsed
Time (hr) | Comments |
| --- | --- |
| 9.00 | Trip out of the hole on elevators from xxxx to xxxx.
- Hold PJSM with crews on tripping operations with manual HT-100 rig tongs.
- Trip out of the hole with 12-1/4" BHA from xxxx to xxxx on 5-1/2" DP with manual tongs.
- Trip speed - 2 min/stand.
- Rack back 5-1/2" DP.
- Monitor well on trip tank.
- Proper displacement observed.
- Perform flowcheck at xxx (before handling BHA).
- Well static. |
| 8.25 | Trip out 12-1/4" BHA.
- Hold PJSM with SLB & crew on BHA handling with manual tongs.
- Trip drills held with while laying down BHA.
- Trip out 12-1/4" BHA to surface.
- Bit grade: (2-2-BT-S-X-IN-WT-TD).
- 2.875" Drift recovered at the top of the 8.25" DC's.
- Function test BSR out of the hole.
- BSR closed in 12 seconds.
- Monitor well on trip tank.
- Proper displacement observed. |

---

## Slide 14

| Elapsed
Time (hr) | Comments |
| --- | --- |
| 0.50 | Perform BCFT on 18-3/4" BOP. (BOP Control Function Test)
- Perform 18-3/4" BOP weekly function test.
- Ann Close __ L, 30's Close/17's open.
- UPR Close  __ L, 18's Close/21's open.
- MPR Close __ L. 15's Close/20's open.
- LPR Close __ L 16's Close/17's open.
- HCR Close __ L |
|  |  |
|  |  |

---

## Slide 15

6.1.1.1  Every installed ram BOP shall have, as a minimum, a working pressure equal to the maximum anticipated surface pressure (MASP) to be encountered.


6.1.1.2  Blowout preventer equipment is based on rated working pressures (RWPs) and designated as described in Table 1.

### API 53

---

## Slide 16

---

## Slide 17

---

## Slide 18

---

## Slide 19

---

## Slide 20

---
