## Slide 1

钻井英语日报详解DDR of QH-1

第13讲

---

## Slide 2


Bit Dull Grade&Bit Selection

---

## Slide 3

本单元的词汇表

| Achieve 完成 | Fundamental 基础的 | Property 性能 | Marginal 边缘的 |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Durability 耐久性 | Abrasive 研磨的 | Reactive 反应的 | Homogeneous 均质的 |
| Laminated 薄板状的 | Deviation 背离 | Offset 偏离的 | Bearing 轴承 |
| Sensitive 敏感的 | Silt 泥沙 | Interbed 夹层 | Outline 轮廓 |
| Consistency 一致性 | Centermost 最中间的 | Clockwise 顺时针 | Chip 剥落 |
| Springback 反弹 | Squeak 吱吱叫 | Letdown 松弛 | Regardless 不顾 |
| Substrate 基片 | Erosion 冲蚀 | Biaxial 双轴的 | Prevalent 流行的 |
|  |  |  |  |
|  |  |  |  |

---

## Slide 4

Basic of Bit Selection

---

## Slide 5

Bit Selection

### What do we want to achieve?

### The fundamentals to consider

The process of bit selection

### Bit properties to consider

Examples

---

## Slide 6

Bit Selection

Select Bits to Achieve:

Lowest Cost per Foot





Rig cost will be a function of time spent to drill the section

### When Rig cost is high, bit cost is marginal

### Aim for high ROP and durability

When Rig cost is low, bit cost become more of an issue


---

## Slide 7

What to consider

Rock Properties:

How hard is the formation?

### Is the formation abrasive?

### Is the formation reactive with drilling fluid?

### Homogeneous or highly laminated?


---

## Slide 8

What to consider (Cont’d)

Well Properties:

How long are the sections?

What inclination is planned?

Directional work required?

### What type of drive and/or deviation tools?


---

## Slide 9

Bit selection

Look at historical data from area of interest:

### Offset Bit Records

Offset Logs

Rig Costs


Although rock doesn’t change, it can be variable due to:

Porosity, permeability changes

Mud influence

Depth

---

## Slide 10

Bit properties

How fast are the bits considered? (ROP)


How durable are the bits considered? (Bit Hours)


How steerable are the bits considered? (Directional Performance)


---

## Slide 11

Bit properties (Cont’d)

Mill Tooth Bits


Advantages

Cheap

Steerable

Fast, in correct applications


Disadvantages

Limited Cutting structure Life

### Life limited by Bearing

---

## Slide 12

Bit properties (Cont’d)

Insert Bits


Advantages

Durable

Steerable

Able to drill hard formation


Disadvantages

Generally slower than mill tooth and PDC

Life can be limited by bearing

---

## Slide 13

Bit properties (Cont’d)

PDC & Impregnated Bits


Advantages

Able to Drill a Variety of Formations

Durable (No Bearings)

High ROP

High RPM


Disadvantages

Price

### Parameter sensitive

Hydraulic sensitive

---

## Slide 14

Bit selection, e.g. 1

8 ½” section North Sea

Properties

### Sandstone formation with some clay and silt interbeds

Section Length = 2,500 m

Tripping time = 30 hours (depth 4900m)

Total rig cost USD 15,000/hr




PDC

Price USD 40,000

ROP = 35 m/hr

Hours = unlimited

USD/m = ?

Insert bit

Price USD 20,000

ROP = 13 m/hr

Hours = 65 hours

USD/m = ?

Milltooth bit

Price USD 10,000

ROP = 21 m/hr

Hours = 40 hours

USD/m = ?

---

## Slide 15

Bit selection, e.g. 1 Cont.

8 ½” section North Sea






Milltooth bit

One bit will drill 21 m/hr x 40 hours = 840 m

Approx three bits are needed to finish section

Total bit cost = 3x10,000 = USD 30,000

Total hours from shoe to TD = 40 + 30 + 40 + 30 + 40 = 180

Total rig cost for this time = 180x15,000 = USD 2700,000


Total cost including bits = USD 2,730,000

Cost per meter = 2,730,000/2500 = 1,092 USD/m

---

## Slide 16

Bit selection, e.g. 1 Cont.

8 ½” section North Sea




Insert bit

One bit will drill 13 m/hr x 65 hours = 845 m

Approx three bits are needed to finish section

Total bit cost = 3 x 20,000 = USD 60,000

Total hours from shoe to TD = 65 + 30 + 65 + 30 + 65 = 255

Total rig cost for this time = 180x15,000 = USD 3,825,000


Total cost including bits = USD 3,885,000

Cost per meter = 3,885,000/2,500 = 1,554 USD/m

---

## Slide 17

Bit selection, e.g. 1 Cont.

8 ½” section North Sea




PDC bit

One bit will drill from shoe to TD

Bit hours = 2,500/35 m/hr = 71.4 hours

Total bit cost = 1x40,000 = USD 40.000

Total hours from shoe to TD = 71.4

Total rig cost for this time = 71.4x15,000 = USD 1,071,429


Total cost including bits = USD 1,111,429

Cost per meter = 1,105,000/2,500 = 445 USD/m

---

## Slide 18

Bit selection, e.g. 1 Summary

8 ½” section North Sea

Properties

Sandstone formation with some clay and silt interbeds

Section Length = 2500 m

Tripping time = 30 hours

Total rig cost USD 15,000/hr




PDC

Price USD 40,000

ROP = 35 m/hr

Hours = unlimited

USD/m = 445


Insert bit

Price USD 20,000

ROP = 13 m/hr

Hours = 65 hours

USD/m = 1,554


Milltooth bit

Price USD 10,000

ROP = 21 m/hr

Hours = 40 hours

USD/m = 1,092

---

## Slide 19

Dull Grading System

Rollercone, PDC and Impregnated Bits

---

## Slide 20

IADC Bit Dull Grading System


---

## Slide 21

### TCI

### Milled Tooth

### Heel Row

### Gage Row

### Inner Row

Identifying Rows

### Gage Row

### Inner Row

---

## Slide 22

I: Inner Rows (Rockbits)

Used to report the condition of the cutting elements not touching the wall of the hole.


Linear scale from 0 - 8 measuring the combined cutting structure reduction due to lost, worn and/or broken cutting elements.


Tooth Height Measurement

Steel Tooth Bit






Insert Bit


---

## Slide 23

I: Inner Rows

Used to record the average wear on the inner two-thirds (⅔) of the bit radius


Cutter wear is recorded using a linear scale from 0 to 8

0 = no diamond wear

8 = no diamond remaining


PDC cutter wear should be measured across the diamond table regardless of the cutter shape, size, type or exposure

---

## Slide 24

I: Inner Rows

Impregnated bits (XTN, XTS)

Use a ratio of remaining rib-height to original rib-height

If original rib-height was 0.5” and remaining rib-height is 0.25”, grading would be ‘4’ (50% wear)

Inner row wear is graded on a 0 to 8 scale .


---

## Slide 25

I: Inner Rows

Impregnated bits (XTG)

XTG bits with GHI (Grit Hot-Pressed Inserts)

At the point where the GHI is flush with the ribs, the bit should be graded a ‘1’

Wear after that point is measured the same as XTN and XTS impregnated bits



---

## Slide 26

IADC Bit Dull Grading System


---

## Slide 27

O: Outer Rows

Used to report the condition of the cutting elements that touch the wall of the hole


Linear scale from 0 - 8 measuring the combined cutting structure reduction due to lost, worn and/or broken cutting elements.

Do not include heel elements

Tooth Height Measurement

Steel Tooth Bit






Insert Bit



---

## Slide 28

O: Outer Rows

Used to record the average wear on the outer one-third (⅓) of the bit radius


Cutter wear is recorded using a liner scale from 0 to 8

0 = no diamond wear

8 = no diamond remaining


PDC cutter wear should be measured across the diamond table regardless of the cutter shape, size, type or exposure

---

## Slide 29

Objectives

Understand the purpose of the system


### Outline the 8-digit system structure


### Provide guidelines for consistency


Examine the most common dull characteristics

---

## Slide 30

IADC Bit Dull Grading System


---

## Slide 31

D: Dull Characteristics

Two letter code to indicate the major dull characteristic of the cutting structure.

input only one dull characteristic code

This column is only for codes that apply to cutting structures


Which code do I select?

The cutting structure dull characteristic is the observed characteristic that would most likely limit further usage of the bit in that application

---

## Slide 32

###  Show cone number or numbers under location (L)

### #  Not used for roller cone bits

D: Dull Characteristics

BC - Broken Cone 

BF - Bond Failure #

BT - Broken Teeth/Cutters

BU - Balled Up

CC - Cracked Cone 

CD - Cone Dragged 

CI - Cone Interference

CR - Cored

CT - Chipped Teeth/Cutters

DL – Cutter Delamination #

ER - Erosion

FC - Flat Crested Wear

HC - Heat Checking

JD - Junk Damage

LC - Lost Cone 

LM - Lost Matrix #

LN - Lost Nozzle

LT - Lost Teeth/Cutters

NO - No Dull Characteristic

NR - Not Rerunable

OC - Off Center Wear

PB - Pinched Bit

PN - Plugged Nozzle

RG - Rounded Gage

RO - Ring Out #

RR - Rerunable

SD - Shirttail Damage

SS - Self Sharpening Wear

TR - Tracking

WO - Washed Out Bit

WT - Worn Teeth/Cutters


---

## Slide 33

IADC Bit Dull Grading System


---

## Slide 34

L: Location (PDC)

Uses a letter code to indicate the location on the bit face where the major dull characteristic occurs

C = Cone

N = Nose

T = Taper

S = Shoulder

G = Gauge

A = All Areas

---

## Slide 35

L: Location (Rockbits)

Uses a letter or number code to indicate the location on the face of the bit where the cutting structure dull characteristic occurs

G = Gauge: those cutting elements which touch the hole wall.

N = Nose: the centermost cutting elements of the bit.

M = Middle: the cutting elements between the nose and the gage.

A = All rows

Cone numbers


a maximum of two characters to be input


---

## Slide 36

L: Location (Rockbits)

In general, the #1 cone typically contains the centermost cutting element. The #2 and #3 cones follow in a clockwise rotation.


However, accurate determination of #1 cone, on any roller cone bit, by visual examination is not always possible.


---

## Slide 37

General Cone Identification Rule

Centermost Cutting Element

(Spearpoint)





### #1

### #3

### #2

### #1

### #3

### #2

---

## Slide 38

IADC Bit Dull Grading System


---

## Slide 39

B: Bearings/Seals

This column is used to indicate the condition of the bearing and seal assembly.  If either component in the assembly has failed, then the code is F.

If any portion of the bearing is exposed or missing, it is considered an ineffective (F) assembly.

Use N  if unable to determine the condition of both components.

Smith Tool grades each assembly separately.

If grading all assemblies as one, list the worst case.


---

## Slide 40

B: Bearings/Seals

Sealed Bearing Bits

E – Seals effective

F – Seals failed

N – Not able to grade



Non-Sealed Bearing Bits

Linear scale from 0 to 8

Estimating bearing life used

---

## Slide 41

B: Bearings/Seals

Items to check when determining Bearing/Seal effectiveness

Ability to rotate cone

### Cone springback

### Seal squeak

Internal sounds

Weeping grease

Shale packing

Gaps - backface or throat

### Bearing letdown - inner or outer

---

## Slide 42

B: Bearings/Seals (PDC)

Not Applicable

This space is used only for roller cone bits

It will always be marked ‘X’ for fixed cutter bits


---

## Slide 43

IADC Bit Dull Grading System


---

## Slide 44

G: Gauge

Used to record the condition of the bit gauge

Based upon a nominal ring gauge

Ensure that the correct ring gauge is used

---

## Slide 45

### Amount Undergauge in 16ths

### IN = In Gage

### 1 = 1/16”

### 2 = 2/16”

### 3 = 3/16”

### Etc..

G: Gage

PDC and Impregnated Bits

Measure on the gauge pads

### Amount out of gauge =

### Measured distance




---

## Slide 46

G: Gauge (Rockbits)

Round to nearest 1/16”

Bits with bearing/seal failures: can measure amount out of gauge as long as the cones do not have any axial or radial movement

Measurement to be made on either the gauge or heel elements which ever is closer to gauge

Applies to cutting structure elements only

If nominal ring gauges are not available true gauge condition can not be determined.

There are no API specifications for nominal ring gauges for roller cone bits — only for diamond and PDC bits

---

## Slide 47


### Amount Undergage in 16ths

### IN = In Gage

### 1 = 1/16”

### 2 = 2/16”

### 3 = 3/16”

### Etc..

### Amount out of gage =

### Measured distance x ⅔

G: Gauge (Rockbits)

‘Two-Thirds Rule’

Applies to all 3-cone bits

### Rotate all cones to MAXIMUM offset



---

## Slide 48

IADC Bit Dull Grading System


---

## Slide 49

###  Show cone number or numbers under location (L)

### #  Not used for roller cone bits

O: Other Dull Characteristics

BC - Broken Cone 

BF - Bond Failure #

BT - Broken Teeth/Cutters

BU - Balled Up

CC - Cracked Cone 

CD - Cone Dragged 

CI - Cone Interference

CR - Cored

CT - Chipped Teeth/Cutters

DL – Cutter Delamination #

ER - Erosion

FC - Flat Crested Wear

HC - Heat Checking

JD - Junk Damage

LC - Lost Cone 

LM - Lost Matrix #

LN - Lost Nozzle

LT - Lost Teeth/Cutters

NO - No Dull Characteristic

NR - Not Rerunable

OC - Off Center Wear

PB - Pinched Bit

PN - Plugged Nozzle

RG - Rounded Gage

RO - Ring Out #

RR - Rerunable

SD - Shirttail Damage

SS - Self Sharpening Wear

TR - Tracking

WO - Washed Out Bit

WT - Worn Teeth/Cutters


---

## Slide 50

IADC Bit Dull Grading System


---

## Slide 51

R: Reason Pulled

BHA - Change Bottom Hole Assembly

CM - Condition Mud

CP - Core Point

DMF - Downhole Motor Failure

DP - Drill Plug

DSF - Drill String Failure

DST	 - Drill Stem Test

DTF - Downhole Tool Failure

FM - Formation Change

HP - Hole Problems


HR - Hours on Bit

LIH - Left in Hole

LOG - Run Logs

PP - Pump Pressure

PR - Penetration Rate

RIG - Rig Repair

TD - Total Depth / Casing Depth

TQ - Torque

TW - Twist Off

WC - Weather Conditions

WO - Washout in Drill String



---

## Slide 52

IADC Bit Dull Grading System


Examples of Dull characteristics

---

## Slide 53

WT - Worn Teeth

Worn teeth is a condition that describes the reduction in the cutting element height due to the drilling action.

This is a normal and expected wear mode.


---

## Slide 54

WT - Worn Cutters

Reduction in cutter height by drilling action.


This is a normal wear mode.


Worn cutters are described by a value 0 to 8

0 being no wear

8 being no cutter remaining.

---

## Slide 55

CT - Chipped  Teeth

A cutting element is considered chipped if less than ⅓ of the cutting element is gone regardless of the cause.

Chipped hardfacing on mill tooth bits is considered to be chipped teeth.


---

## Slide 56

CT - Chipped Cutters

A cutting element is considered chipped if less than ⅓ of the cutting element is missing


Diamond table chipping generally occurs on the outer cutter edge


---

## Slide 57

BT - Broken Teeth

A cutting element is considered broken if over ⅓ of the cutting element is gone regardless of the cause.


---

## Slide 58

BT - Broken Cutters

A cutting element is considered broken if over ⅓ of the cutting element has broken from the substrate


Broken cutters indicate problems

in bit selection

and / or operating practices


---

## Slide 59

LT - Lost Teeth

This characteristic describes a cutting structure that is missing one or more cutting elements.


---

## Slide 60

LT - Lost Cutters

A cutting structure missing one or more cutting elements


Lost cutters are very damaging to a cutting structure


The loss of one cutting element increases workload for remaining cutting elements

Potentially leads to a ring-out or core-out

---

## Slide 61

ER - Erosion

Erosion is the loss of cutting structure material by impact from drilling fluids and cuttings


Erosion undermines cutters resulting in loss


Erosion can wear away blade and body material


---

## Slide 62

HC - Heat Crecking

### Heat checking is biaxial or cross hatched surface cracks on a cutter


Number of cracks can vary significantly


### Most prevalent on nose, shoulder and gauge areas

---

## Slide 63

### Kelly Cock

### TIW

### Gray Valve

Stripping

---

## Slide 64

Allen Key

---

## Slide 65


---

## Slide 66

---

## Slide 67

---
