## Slide 1

钻井英语日报详解DDR of QH-1

第15讲

---

## Slide 2

Stuck Pipe (pack off) and cut pipe

---

## Slide 3

本单元的词汇表

| RSW
Rotating String Weight
钻具旋转重量 | Blow 冲击 | Proceed 行进 | Tensile 拉力 |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Periodically 偶尔地 | Slump 下降 | Dummy 假的 | Socket 插座 |
| Rub 摩擦 | Beam 横梁 | Deflection 偏向 | Stretch 拉伸 |
| Harsh 严厉的 | Terminate 终结 | DCST
Drill Collar Severing Tool 钻铤切断工具 |  |
| Ballistic 射击的 | Sever 割断 | Detonate 引爆 | Pellet 小子弹 |
| CCL 
Casing Collar Locator 
套管接头定位器 | Disarm 解除武装 | Cabin 小屋 | Relay 继电器 |
| Constraint 限制 | Debris 碎片 | Chrome 铬 | Needless 不需要地 |
|  |  |  |  |
|  |  |  |  |

---

## Slide 4

| Elapsed
Time (hr) | Comments |
| --- | --- |
| 1.00 | Pump out of hole with 12-1/4" RSS BHA |
| 1.50 | Observe packoff at xxxx in a shale formation
- Perform jarring .
- Set off jar: 27 kdaN
- Min/Max pull: 15 kdaN.
- Observed 15 kdaN overpull.
- Hole packoff to 10 MPa.
- TQ: 61 kN-m.
- Shut down pumps when pack off observed.
- Bleed off pressure to 0 psi.
- Attempt to break over and set TQ limit to 65 kN-m.
- Slack off to 85 kdaN and attempt to fire jars down.
- Pick up to 230 kdaN and slack off to 75 kdaN.
- Fire jars 18 times, able to regain rotation. |

---

## Slide 5

| Elapsed
Time (hr) | Comments |
| --- | --- |
| 14.50 | Work on string to regain circulation/movement.
- Establish rotation at 185 kdaN (RSW) Hook load.
- Attempt to pump with 180 lpm.
- Pack off observed to 2MPa.
- Work string up and down in attempt to establish circulation.
- Proceed to continue jarring down.
- Pick up to 25k over (250K)
- Slack off to 80K
- establish rotation in attempt to establish circulation.
- RPM: 20 | TQ: 19 - 73 kN-m
- No success in establishing circulation.
- Fire jars 7 times. Total of 25 blows.
- Continue to work string from 235 kdaN to 130 kdaN for 15min in attempt to establish circulation with.
- RPM: 20 | TQ: 19 - 73 kN-m.
- Work same parameters with no rotation for 15 minutes. Proceed with jarring upwards
- Continue to jar
- Slack off and cock jars at 125K
- Pull and stage up jarring pullover to 330K (105K over PUW)
- Continue to jar pipe at 80% tensile rating.
- Rack back 1 stand of 5-1/2" DP.
- Fire jars down 72 times, jar up 98 times, and jar down 12 times.
- No movement observed, periodically attempt to circulate without success. |

---

## Slide 6

| Elapsed
Time (hr) | Comments |
| --- | --- |
| 1.00 | Post jarring inspection.
- Perform post jarring inspection on TDS. |
| 1.00 | Attempt to free stuck pipe
- Jarring cycle #1 for 30 minutes.
- 5 jars upwards between 330 - 370 kdaN.
- 1 jar downward between 80 - 90 kdaN.
- Fire 20 jars upwards & 4 downward in cycle.
- Number of jars in cycle = 24.
- Total number of jars = 24.
- Let jars cool down after 30 minutes of jarring.
- Pressure up on to 5MPa in attempt to regain circulation.
- Unable to circulate, bleed off pressure. |
| 1.00 | Attempt to free stuck pipe, 
- Jarring cycle #2 for 30 minutes.
- 5 jars upwards between 330 - 370 kdaN.
- 1 jar downward between 80 - 90 kdaN.
- Fire 20 jars upwards & 4 downward in cycle.
- Number of jars in cycle = 24.
- Total number of jars = 48.
- Let jars cool down after 30 minutes of jarring.
- Pressure up to 5.5MPa in attempt to regain circulation.
- Unable to circulate, bleed off pressure. |

---

## Slide 7

| Elapsed
Time (hr) | Comments |
| --- | --- |
| 1.00 | Attempt to free stuck pipe
Jarring cycle #3 for 30 minutes.
Let jars cool down after 30 minutes of jarring. |
| 1.00 | Attempt to free stuck pipe
- Jarring cycle #4 at for 30 minutes.
- Apply 65 kN-m torque and slump drill string to 85 kdaN down.
- Pressure up to 5.5MPa in attempt to regain circulation.
- Unable to circulate, bleed off pressure. |
| 1.00 | Attempt to free stuck pipe
- Jarring cycle #5 for 30 minutes.
- Let jars cool down after 30 minutes of jarring. |
| 1.00 | Post jarring DROPS inspection.
- Perform post jarring DROPS inspection on derrick, TDS, and travelling equipment. |
| 1.00 | Attempt to free stuck pipe
- Jarring cycle #6 for 30 minutes.
- Apply 65 kN-m torque and slump drill string to 85 kdaN down.
- Pressure up to 5.5MPa in attempt to regain circulation.
- Unable to circulate, bleed off pressure. |

---

## Slide 8

| Elapsed
Time (hr) | Comments |
| --- | --- |
| 1.00 | Attempt to free stuck pipe
- Jarring cycle #7 for 30 minutes.
- Apply 65 kN-m torque and slump drill string to 85 kdaN down.
- Pressure up to 5.5MPa in attempt to regain circulation.
- Unable to circulate, bleed off pressure. |
| 1.00 | Attempt to free stuck pipe
- Jarring cycle #8 for 30 minutes.
- Apply 65 kN-m torque and slump drill string to 85 kdaN down.
- Pressure up to 5.5MPa in attempt to regain circulation.
- Unable to circulate, bleed off pressure. |
| 1.00 | Attempt to free stuck pipe
- Jarring cycle #47 for 30 minutes.
- Apply 65 kN-m torque and slump drill string to 85 kdaN down.
- Pressure up to 5.5MPa in attempt to regain circulation.
- Unable to circulate, bleed off pressure. |
| 1.00 | Post jarring DROPS inspection.
- Perform post jarring DROPS inspection on derrick, TDX,
travelling equipment, and moon pool. |

---

## Slide 9

| Elapsed
Time (hr) | Comments |
| --- | --- |
| 2.50 | Rig down drilling equipment.
- Held PJSM with crews involved in rigging down drilling equipment and rigging up wire line.
- Lay down single of 5-1/2" DP.
- Rig down drilling bails and BX elevators.
- Rig up 12m 500 ton bails and elevators.
- Breakdown side entry assembly
- Make up pack off assembly to 3m pup joint. |
| 3.50 | Rig up wireline equipment.
- Mobilized wireline tools to rig floor.
- Rig up wireline equipment & sheaves.
- Make up tools for dummy run. |
| 4.00 | Change out wire line rope socket.
- During rig up, observe wireline out of upper sheave groove.
- Slack off on wireline, and observe damage.
- Wireline rig down tools.
- Cut and change out wireline rope socket. |
| 0.50 | Make up wireline and prepare for dummy run.
- Make up wire line tools for Dummy run.
- Re-arrange upper sheave rig up due to wire line rubbing against derrick beam. |

---

## Slide 10

| Elapsed
Time (hr) | Comments |
| --- | --- |
| 1.25 | Make up pack off assembly.
- Lower tools into drill string.
- Make up pack off assembly and latch to elevators.
- Confirm all wire clear from TDS and reposition.
- Make up packoff assembly and torque same. |
| 1.50 | Free stuck slip in bushings.
- Slip stuck in bushing, after being installed during wireline operations.
- Troubleshoot and free stuck slips. |
| 6.25 | Perform wireline free point run.
- RIH with wireline to 150m and power up drill tool string.
- Perform 60 kdaN overpull with drill string at 150m.
- Measure deflection reading.
- Deflection reading at neutral weight (180 kdaN) = 470.
Depth      Overpull        Deflection         Deflection Difference
150m        60kdaN             478                             8
- RIH with wireline from 150m to 3500 m.
- Perform checks and measure deflection at different P/U weights.
- Deflection reading at neutral weight (180 kdaN) =470.
Depth      Overpull        Deflection         Deflection Difference
3500m     60 kdaN                472                           2
3500m     62 kdaN                471                            1
3500m     64 kdaN                471                            1
3500m     68 kdaN                471                            1 |

---

## Slide 11

| Elapsed
Time (hr) | Comments |
| --- | --- |
| 10.75 | Perform free point stretch tests.
- Stage up over pull from 75 kdaN to 120 kdaN in increments of 2 kdaN to achieve deflections readings similar to the reading of 8 when measured at 150m.
Depth           Over Pull              Deflection
3500m          120 kdaN                 6.37
3500m          120 kdaN                 6.37
3500m          120 kdaN                 5.92
- Perform free point stretch tests every 30m from 3500m ft to 3680m.
- Perform 3 deflection readings at each station to obtain a average deflection.
BHA Depth      Wireline Depth            Avg Deflect 12 kdaN  overpull
  xxxx m                  xxxxm                                 5.63
 xxxx m                  xxxxm                                  7.43
 xxxx m                  xxxxm                                  0.50
 xxxx m                  xxxxm                                  2.27
 xxxx m                  xxxxm                                  2.00
 xxxx m                  xxxxm                                  2.23
 xxxx m                  xxxxm                                  2.93
 xxxx m                  xxxxm                                  3.20
Note: Wireline tools hung up at 3700m. |

---

## Slide 12

Free Point Indicator

The Free Point Indicator (FPI) from Baker Hughes is an electro-mechanical assembly designed to accurately measure torque or stretch in harsh conditions to locate precisely where drill pipe, tubing, or casing is stuck or partially stuck.

The Free Point Indicator assembly consists of a non-grounded collar locator (SAS40092), upper motorized anchor (SFUA), sensor section (SAS40018), and lower motorized anchor (SFLA) to determine the stuck point. A classic assembly typically consists of sinker bars to overcome the holding ability of the pre-set anchors and a slack joint to relieve weight above the tool assembly when at the correct measurement depth. For greater flexibility, the FPI can be configured with bow springs or magnets instead of motorized anchors. Bow springs, used when the inner diameter of the pipe is too large for the motorized arms, have carbide-coated outer springs that grip the pipe to aid anchoring. If the inner diameter is too large for both bow springs and motorized anchors, magnetic anchors can be used


---

## Slide 13

| Elapsed
Time (hr) | Comments |
| --- | --- |
| 1.75 | Trip out of hole with Wireline tools to surface |
| 4.75 | Rig down pack off assembly and Wireline tools.
- Transition to work meeting with crew to rig down Wireline tools.
- Break and rig down pack off assembly and Wireline tool.
- Terminate rope socket.
- Prepare and test new rope socket for DCST ballistic tool string. |
| 1.25 | Make up Wireline DCST ballistic tool string.
- Transition to work meeting with crew to rig up Wireline DCST ballistic tool string.
- Measure CCL to shooting sub = 12m.
- Rig up and make up Wireline DCST ballistic tool string.
- Max OD = 2.375 in.
- Perform hot check, OK.
- RIH to 80m and make up pack off assembly with SES and FOSV. |

---

## Slide 14

### Drill Collar Severing Tools - Pipe Recovery Systems

Drill Collar Severing Tools are designed to sever drill collars and heavyweight drill pipe reliably and safely during Pipe Recovery Operations. Drill Collar Severing Tools utilize EBWs to simultaneously detonate columns creates a shock wave collision, severing the tubular.

### Benefits/Capabilities:

### Air shippable at Class 1.4S for detonators and 1.4D for pellet

Hardware shipped separately

Conforms to API RP-67

Utilizes Explosive Bridge-Wire Detonators for increased safety

### EBW Detonators increase the precision of the colliding shock-waves for maximum performance

Must be assembled on location


### exploding-bridgewire (EBW) detonator

---

## Slide 15

| Elapsed
Time (hr) | Comments |
| --- | --- |
| 5.50 | Perform Drill collar severing tool (DCST) ballistic severing run.
- Applied 50 kdaN over pull to drill string.
- RIH with Wireline ballistic serving tool from 80m to 3660 ft.
- Performed correlation pass #1 to from 3660m to 3600m.
- Offset +2.5m.
- Performed correlation pass #2 from 3660m to 3600m.
- Offset 0.
- RIH with Wireline from 3600m to hang up depth at 3680m.
- Logged up to shooting depth at 3670m (CCL depth) 
- CCL to shot = 12m.
- Attempt to fire DCST ballistic tool at shooting depth, 11 attempts with no positive indication shot fired.
- Wireline tension.- Before: 1800 kg - After : 1800 kg.
- Hookload. - Before: 225 kdaN - After : 225 kdaN.
- Wireline pick up 30m.
- Slack off weight to neutral weight 180 kdaN, pick up to 250 kdaN 5 cycles.
- No movement observed.
- Slack off weight to neutral.
- POOH with ballistic serving tool to surface |

---

## Slide 16

| Elapsed
Time (hr) | Comments |
| --- | --- |
| 0.50 | Confirmed DCST did not fire.
- Disarm DCST.
- Lay out unfired DCST ballistic tool. |
| 2.50 | Troubleshoot Wireline DCST and make up new assembly.
- Baker Hughes trouble shooting DCST ballistic tool string.
- Observed loose wire between the PX-1 module and the bottom detonator creating an open circuit not allowing detonation.
- Consulting with shore base of forward plan.
- Change out DCST with backup assembly. |
| 1.00 | Change out wireline DCST ballistic tool string.
- Make up DCST ballistic tool string.
- Make up head and run in hole with wireline to 300'. |

---

## Slide 17

| Elapsed
Time (hr) | Comments |
| --- | --- |
| 2.75 | Perform Drill collar severing tool (DCST) ballistic severing run.
- Applied 50 kdaN over pull to drill string.
- RIH with Wireline ballistic serving tool from 80m to 3660 ft.
- Performed correlation pass #1 to from 3660m to 3600m.
- Offset +2.5m.
- Performed correlation pass #2 from 3660m to 3600m.
- Offset 0.
- RIH with Wireline from 3600m to hang up depth at 3680m.
- Logged up to shooting depth at 3670m (CCL depth) 
- CCL to shot = 12m.
- Fire DCST ballistic tool at shooting depth.
- Wireline tension.- Before: 1800 kg - After : 1600 kg.
- Hookload. - Before: 225 kdaN - After : 220 kdaN.
- Good indication of fire from Wireline cabin. |
| 2.50 | Trip out of hole with Break off DCST ballistic tool string line.
- Wireline pick up 60m.
- Slack off weight to neutral weight 180kdaN, pick up to 250 kdaN 5 cycles.
- No movement observed.
- Slack off weight to neutral.
- POOH with ballistic serving tool to surface |

---

## Slide 18

| Elapsed
Time (hr) | Comments |
| --- | --- |
| 0.75 | Rig down DCST ballistic tool string.
- Break packoff, SES and FOSV assembly.
- POOH with Wireline to surface.
- Confirmed DCST shot fired.
- Lay out fired DCST ballistic tool string.
- Rig down pack off assembly.
- Pick up 1 single of DP to pull on drill string. |
| 3.75 | Attempt to establish drill string movement and circulation.
- Apply 35 kN-m torque to drill string.
- Work string from 75 to 225 kdaN torque x 5 cycles.
- No success.
- Pick up to 350 kdaN and fire jar up x1.
- Attempt to establish circulation with 7 SPM, Pressure up to 7MPa with no positive sign of increased returns.
- Lay out single of DP. |
|  | Repeat DCST ballistic shot operation. No success. |

---

## Slide 19

| Elapsed
Time (hr) | Comments |
| --- | --- |
| 0.75 | Rig up pack off assembly.
- Lay out single of DP.
- Rig up pack off assembly and bottom sheave. |
| 0.25 | Attempt to function test Mechanical Pipe Cutter (MPC) assembly.
- Make up Wireline MPC and function test.
- Failed, tools lost power. |
| 8.75 | Troubleshoot Baker E-line primary and backup control panel A & B.
- Troubleshoot both panels. Found a faulty relay in Panel A.
- Remove relay - able to communicate with tools.
- Panel B - further troubleshooting required. |
| 0.75 | Function test Mechanical Pipe Cutter (MPC) assembly.
- Complete MPC function test.
- Good Test. |
| 5.00 | Run in hole with Mechanical Pipe Cutter (MPC) and commence cutting drill string.
- RIH to 80m.
- Make up pack off, SES, and FOSV assembly.
- RIH with MPC from 80m to 3600m.
- Performed correlation pass #1 to from 3600m to 3540m.
- Offset -0.8m.
- Performed correlation pass #2 to from 3600m to 3540m.
- Offset 0.0 m.
- Logged up to cutting depth at 3600m WL depth. |

---

## Slide 20

Mechanical Pipe Cutter

The Mechanical Pipe Cutter™ (MPC™) solution from Baker Hughes reduces logistical and environmental constraints of stuck pipe or pipe recovery operations. It provides precise, downhole pipe cutting electromechanically, without the use of ballistics or hazardous chemicals. The MPC performs clean cuts with less debris and no damage to external tubulars or control lines, reducing nonproductive time (NPT), personnel risk, and overall intervention costs.

Cutting penetration is continuously measured and controlled from the surface, confirming the cut has been made successfully and avoiding needless trips out of hole. The cutter’s temperature and pressure ratings enable pipe cutting in hotter and deeper environments, while eliminating additional time-consuming pipe recovery operations. The unlimited settings are controlled by the surface computer system and multiple cuts can be made in one trip, saving time and rig costs. Compared to conventional cutters, the MPC cuts a wider range of pipe sizes and types, including steel, alloy (chrome), and Inconel®


---

## Slide 21

| Elapsed
Time (hr) | Comments |
| --- | --- |
| 0.75 | Continue to cut with wireline Mechanical Pipe Cutter (MPC).
- Complete cutting drill string.
- Drill Pipe depth 3600m (Top of Fish).
- MPC recorded 5.5" OD on cutter when cut completed.
- Good indication of successful drill string DP cut.
- Wireline tension. - Before: 1800kg. - After : 1550kg.
- Hookload. - Before: 250 kdaN. - After : 175 kdaN. |
| 2.00 | POOH with Wireline Mechanical Pipe Cutter (MPC).
- Pick up 3m on drill string & confirm free with break over.
- POOH with MPC assembly surface.
- Break pack off, SES, and FOSV assembly. |

---
