## Slide 1

钻井英语日报详解DDR of QH-1

第18讲

---

## Slide 2

OH Log 12-1/4” Hole

---

## Slide 3

本单元的词汇表

| Spooler arm 卷筒支臂 | Caliper 卡尺 | Sufficient 足够的 | Source 源 |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Unload 卸载 | Deploy 部署 | Pneumatic 气动的 | Correlate 相关的 |
| Anchor 锚 | Shuttle 穿梭班车 | Dump valve 泄压阀 | Landing collar 坐落箍 |
| Friction factor 摩擦系数 | Optimum 最优的 | Fill 沉沙 | Commander 指挥官 |
| Brass 铜 | shear 剪切 | Expand 扩张 | Tie back 回接 |
| Slip and cut 滑割 | Drill line 钻井大绳 | Drawworks 绞车 | Auxiliary 辅助的 |
| ACS anti-collision system
防碰系统 | SCBA self contained breathing apparatus
自给式呼吸器 |  |  |
|  |  |  |  |
|  |  |  |  |

---

## Slide 4

| Elapsed
Time (hr) | Comments |
| --- | --- |
| 2.75 | Rig up e-line & conduct e-line open hole logging.
- Hold PJSM with e-line & crews.
- Rig up BX-4 elevators to 3-1/2'' inserts.
- Install T-bar, securing sling & sheaves.
- Adjust spooler arm angle on e- line unit.
- Make up logging assembly # 1. Run 1: EMS-PPC-MSIP-PPC-GR.
- Calibration & surface checks.
- Zero tools in tension.
- Monitor well on trip tanks. Well static. |
| 3.50 | Run in with logging assembly #1 & conduct open hole logging.
- Run in e-line recording downlog from 13-5/8" casing shoe to TD. Driller's depths confirmed.
- Open calipers (PPC & EMS) & log up.
- Log up at 400 mph. |
| 4.00 | Conduct open hole logging run #1.
- Continue logging out of hole to 100m above casing shoe.
- Run in hole 150m below casing shoe.
- Log out of hole for repeat pass from xxxx m to xxxx m.
- Pull out of hole with tool string.
- Confirm sufficient data acquisition with PED. |

---

## Slide 5

Environmental Measurement Sonde (EMS)

---

## Slide 6

| Elapsed
Time (hr) | Comments |
| --- | --- |
| 4.00 | Rig down logging tool string #1 and rig up logging tool sting #2.
- Break and lay down logging tool string #1.
- Pick up and make up logging tool string #2.
- AIT – HRLA – PEX – GR
- Load sources.
- Calibration & surface checks.
- Zero tools in tension. |
| 8.00 | Conduct open hole logging run #2.
- Run in hole acquiring GR-AIT data. 600 mph
- Tag TD and confirm on depth.
- Open PPC and log out of hole to 100 m above casing shoe.
- Run #2 tool string: AIT – HRLA – PEX – GR 600 mph.
- Run in hole 150m below casing shoe.
- Log out of hole for repeat pass from xxxx to xxxx. 600 mph
- Pull out of hole with tool string.
- Confirm sufficient data acquisition with PED.
- Acquire CNL - GR data. |

---

## Slide 7

### HRLA High-Resolution Laterolog Array

---

## Slide 8

| Elapsed
Time (hr) | Comments |
| --- | --- |
| 4.00 | Rig down logging tool string #2 and rig up logging tool sting #3.
- Break and lay down logging tool string #2.
- AIT – HRLA – PEX – GR
- Unload sources.
- Pick up and make up logging tool string #3.
- ZVSP
- Deploy pneumatic seismic guns overboard.
- Calibration & surface checks.
- Zero tools in tension. |
| 1.50 | Run in hole with logging tool string #3.
- Run in hole to xxx m with tool string #3.
- ZVSP.
- Correlate on depth.
- Anchored tool sting for check shot.
- Observed communication issue with lowermost shuttle in tool string. |
| 2.50 | Replace tool string components.
- Pull out of hole with tool string #3.
- Break and lay down tool string.
- Replace lowermost shuttle in tool string.
- Run in hole with tool string to xxx m and complete check shot. |

---

## Slide 9

| Elapsed
Time (hr) | Comments |
| --- | --- |
| 9.50 | Conduct open hole logging run #3.
- Run in hole, correlate on depth, and anchor caliper for check shots.
- Check Shot 1: xxxx m
- Check Shot 2: xxxx m
- Check Shot 3: xxxx m
- Run in hole and correlate on depth at xxxx m.
- Run in hole and conduct ZVSP survey from xxxx to xxxx.
- Complete 12 station seismic survey.
- Pull out of hole with tool string #3. |
| 3.00 | Rig down e-line equipment.
- Break and lay down logging tool string #3.
- ZVSP.
- Remove overboard pneumatic seismic guns and lay down.
- Rig down sheaves and wireline.
- Clean and clear rig floor of unnecessary equipment. |

---

## Slide 10

Zero offset Vertical Seismic Profiling (ZVSP) is a very wellknown tool for time to depth calibration. This kind of geometry is specially demanded at the early stages of field development, when velocity models may still be under refinement. Borehole seismic surveys as such are usually scheduled with the wireline logs once the drilling program has already been completed.

---

## Slide 11

Run & Cement 9-5/8” Liner

---

## Slide 12

| Elapsed
Time (hr) | Comments |
| --- | --- |
| 4.00 | Rig up to 9-5/8" liner string.
- Make up landing crossovers to 6-5/8" HWDP stand and rack back.
- Make up well control crossovers and set back on the winch.
- Rig up 9-5/8" handling equipment.
- Set upper & lower trip heights.
- Function test power tongs and dump valve. |
| 6.00 | Make up and run 9-5/8" liner to 650m.
- Pick up shoe joint & function test - good test.
- Pick up float collar jt & function test - good test.
- Make up float shoe, float collar and landing collar joints to 45m.
- Bakerlok connections.
- Make up to maximum torque + 1.18 bakerlok friction factor.
- Run 9-5/8" 47 ppf L-80 VamTop liner to 650m.
- Make up to optimum xxxx N-m.
- Torque/turn monitored with jam unit
- Top up string every 5 jts run. |

---

## Slide 13

| Elapsed
Time (hr) | Comments |
| --- | --- |
| 2.50 | Make up 9-5/8" liner hanger.
- Change BX inserts from 9-5/8" to 5-1/2".
- Pick up liner hanger and make up to liner string.
- Break circulation and stage up pump rate.
- xx lpm / xx MPa
- xx lpm / xx MPa
- Take parameters.
- Pumps on: __ kdaN PU / __ kdaN SO
- Pumps off: __ kdaN PU / __ kdaN SO |
| 7.50 | Run in hole with 9-5/8" liner on running string.
- Run in hole from xxxx to xxxx.
- 10x 6-5/8" HWDP stands
- 28x 5-1/2" DP stands
- Top fill string every 5 stands run.
- Break circulation every 600m.
- Held pit drill.
- Continued troubleshooting online hydratong. |

---

## Slide 14

| Elapsed
Time (hr) | Comments |
| --- | --- |
| 1.50 | Circulate at 13-5/8" casing shoe.
- Break circulation with string in tension.
- Circulate 1.5x liner + landing string volume.
- Take parameters with pumps on.
- ___ kdaN PU / ___ kdaN SO / ___ kdaN ROT
- __ lpm / ___ MPa, 10 rpm / ___ kN-m
- __ lpm / ___ MPa, 30 rpm / ___ kN-m
- Take parameters with pumps off.
- ___ kdaN PU / ___ kdaN SO / ___ kdaN ROT
- 10 rpm / ___ kN-m
- 30 rpm / ___ kN-m |
| 2.50 | Run in hole with 9-5/8" liner on landing string.
- Run in hole from xxxx to xxxx with 5-1/2" DP stands.
- Top fill string every 5 stands run.
- Break circulation every 600m. |

---

## Slide 15

| Elapsed
Time (hr) | Comments |
| --- | --- |
| 4.50 | Circulate and condition mud.
- Wash down and tag bottom at with 5 kdaN.
- ___ lpm / ____ MPa
- Tagged on depth, no fill observed
- Circulate and condition mud to 1.12SG.
- ___ lpm / ____ MPa
- Take parameters with pumps on.
- ___ kdaN PU / ___ kdaN SO / ___ kdaN ROT
- ___ lpm / ____ MPa, 10 rpm / __ kN-m
- Take parameters with pumps off.
- ___ kdaN PU / ___ kdaN SO / ___ kdaN ROT
- 10 rpm /__ kN-m |
| 1.00 | Make up Commander cement head.
- Break and lay down DP single.
- Make up 5m & 1.5m pups to string.
- Drop 2.25" brass setting ball.
- Pick up and make up cement head.
- Make up pump line and secure. |

---

## Slide 16

---

## Slide 17

| Elapsed
Time (hr) | Comments |
| --- | --- |
| 1.00 | Pressure test pump lines.
- Line up cementer to pump line on cement head.
- Flush lines and pressure test.
- 2 / 35 MPa for 5 min each |
| 1.50 | Set 9-5/8” Liner Hanger.
- Take initial parameters.
- ___ kdaN PU / ___ kdaN SO
- Tag bottom with 5kdaN SO and pick up 2m.
- Circulate 2.25” setting ball to seat.
- Observe immediate pressure increase (ball on seat).
- Pressure up to 14MPa and hold 5 min. (set liner hanger)
- Bleed off to 10MPa.
- Slack off to ___ kdaN (engage hanger slips to 13-5/8” casing)
- Observe SO prior to tagging bottom (good indication of hanger set).
- Pressure up to 21MPa and hold 5 min. (release running tool)
- Pressure up and observe ball seat shear at 23.1MPa.
- Establish circulation.
- Pick up 1m and observe liner weight released.
- Slack off 2.5 kdaN and initiate rotary to engage tool torque fingers.
- String rotating freely.
- Slack off 10 kdaN and mark pipe. (keep running tool engaging with liner hanger) |

---

## Slide 18

| Elapsed
Time (hr) | Comments |
| --- | --- |
| 3.00 | Cement 9-5/8" liner in place.
- Pump 50m3 1.12SG low rheology mud.
- Pump 15m3 of 1.50SG spacer.
- Release bottom dart.
- Pump 30m3 1.89SG class G slurry.
- Release top dart.
- Displaced with total 41m3 volume.
- 3m3 spacer
- 7m3 1.12SG mud @ 1270 lpm
- 1.5 m3 1.12SG mud @ 470 lpm
- 5 m3 1.12SG mud @ 1270 lpm
- 1.5 m3 1.12SG mud @ 470 lpm
- 5 m3 1.12SG mud @ 1270 lpm
- 7 m3 spacer @ 1270 lpm
- 7 m3 1.12SG mud @ 1270 lpm
- 4 m3 1.12SG mud @ 470 lpm
- No clear indication of bottom dart or plug landing.
- Observed top dart land at 17m3 displacement.
- 0.5 m3 early from calculated.
- Bumped top plug at 6.55MPa (FCP) and pressured up to 10MPa.
- Plug bumped 0.27m3 early from calculated.
- Hold pressure for 5 min.
- Bleed off pressure and observe floats held. 0.25m3 bled back. |

---

## Slide 19

| Elapsed
Time (hr) | Comments |
| --- | --- |
| 1.00 | Set liner top packer.
- Pick up 3m and expand dogs above tie back extension.
- ___ kdaN PU
- Slack off 5 kdaN on tie back and mark pipe.
- Weight taken prior to liner hanger position.
- Rotate at 15 rpm.
- Slack off 37 kdaN and set packer.
- Observe shear at ~27 kdaN SO.
- Hold SO for 5 min.
- Pick up to neutral and cease rotary.
- Slack off 5 kdaN and observe tag 0.15m deeper.
- Slack off 7.5 kdaN.
- Line up cementer down kill line and flush.
- Close annular.
- Pressure test ZXP packer.
- 10MPa / 15 min. Good test.
- 0.5m3 pumped / 0.5m3 bled back. |
| 0.50 | Lay down commander cement head.
- Apply 3MPa to drill string and hoist.
- Observe pressure bleed off as RS packoff exits packer body.
- Break and lay down commander cement head. |

---

## Slide 20

| Elapsed
Time (hr) | Comments |
| --- | --- |
| 3.00 | Circulate wellbore clean above liner top.
- Drop foam wiper ball and make up TDS.
- Circulate out cement contamination until clean 1.12SG mud observed at flowline.
- Estimated volumes returned.
- 15m3 spacer
- 8m3 cement
- 25m3 contaminated mud
- Function BOPs and flush through choke line, kill line, and all surface pump lines. |
| 4.50 | Pulled out of hole with liner landing string to 400m.
- Pull out of hole with liner landing string to 400m.
- Pump 1.46 SG slug
- Rack back 5-1/2" DP
- Held trip drill, well secured in 48 sec
- Monitor well on trip tanks.
- Correct displacement observed. |
| 4.00 | Break down commander cement head.
- Pick up commander cement head.
- Break pup joints from top and bottom of cement head.
- Muster for H2S drill. |














Reverse Circulation

---

## Slide 21

| Elapsed
Time (hr) | Comments |
| --- | --- |
| 3.50 | Pulled out of hole with liner landing string to surface.
- Pull out of hole with liner landing string to 400m.
- Rack back 5-1/2" DP & 6-5/8" HWDP
- Break and lay down crossovers and liner hanger running tool.
- Monitor well on trip tanks.
- Correct displacement observed |
| 2.00 | Jet wellhead and BOPs.
- Run in hole with wear bushing running tool and pull wear bushing.
- Run in hole with jetting tool on 5-1/2" DP stand and space out.
- Function BOPs
- UPR Close 70L, 18 s Close / 21 s open
- MPR Close 73L. 15 s Close / 20 s open
- LPR Close 78L 16 s Close / 17 s open
- Jet wellhead and BOP components.
- 5 rpm, 2450 lpm / 2.5MPa |
| 1.50 | Pull out of hole with jetting tool on 5-1/2" DP stand.
Run in hole with wear bushing running tool and install wear bushing |

---

## Slide 22

| Elapsed
Time (hr) | Comments |
| --- | --- |
| 3.00 | Run in hole with tubulars from derrick to lay down.
- Run in hole with 5x stands 8-1/4" drill collars.
- Change BX inserts to 6-5/8".
- Run in hole with 10x stands 6-5/8" HWDP.
- Monitor well on trip tanks.
- Correct displacement observed. |
| 3.50 | Slip and cut drill line.
- Hang off blocks and slip & cut 40.8m of drill line.
- Top drive service.
- Calibrate drawworks/block position. |
| 11.50 | Lay down tubulars.
- Break and lay down 30 singles of 6-5/8" HWDP
- Change BX inserts to 5-1/2".
- Break and lay down 10 singles of 8-1/4" drill collars.
- Monitor well on trip tanks.
- Correct displacement observed.
- Muster for H2S drill.
- Clean and clear rig floor of unnecessary equipment. |

Self-contained breathing apparatus

---

## Slide 23

| Elapsed
Time (hr) | Comments |
| --- | --- |
| 1.75 | Pressure test casing.
- Line up cementer to pump down kill line and flush.
- Close blind/shear rams.
- Pressure test 13-5/8" casing x 9-5/8" liner.
- 28MPa / 15 min
- Good test
- 1.8m3 pumped / 1.8m3 bled back |
| 2.75 | Repair online Hydratong.
- Repair online hydratong on rig floor.
- Check alignment on upper torque jaw clamp.
- Adjust upper guide frame.
- Perform ACS checks. (Anti-Collision System)
Concurrently
- Service auxiliary rig floor equipment.
- Prepare 8-1/2" drilling and coring BHAs.
- Mix and prepare 1.45SG drilling fluid. |

Hawkjaw

---
