## Slide 1

钻井英语日报详解DDR of QH-1

第二讲

---

## Slide 2

本单元的词汇表

| casing head 套管头 | riser 升高管 | mandrel 芯轴 | sling 吊索 |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| single joint elevator 
单根吊卡 | pick up 提起 | make up 上扣 | latch 闩上 |
| Nipple up 组装 | diverter 分流器 | bell nipple 喇叭口 | overshot 套筒 |
| energize 激活 | seal 密封 | locking dog 锁扣 | lip seal 唇形密封 |
| Nipple down 拆卸 | repair 维修 | bleed down 泄压 | inspect 检查 |
| change out 更换 | pressure test 试压 | stand 一柱 | drill 演习 |
| flow line 回流管线 | valve 阀门 | flush 冲洗 | port 左舷 |
| overboard 向船外 | remote 远程的 | panel 控制面板 | master bushings 主补心 |

---

## Slide 3

本单元的词汇表

| insert 插件 | retrieve 取回 | break out 卸扣 | store 存放 |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| packer 封隔器 | diverter bag 分流器胶芯 | drill 演习 | wash down 向下冲 |
| crew 员工 | tag cement 压碰水泥塞 | drill out 钻出去 | clean out 清除 |
| rat hole 鼠洞 | on/off bottom 在/离开井底 | SW string weight
钻柱重量 | wellbore 井筒 |
| reciprocate 往复运动 | tight spot 缩径点 | flow check 溢流观察 | loss rate 漏失速率 |
| trip tank 灌浆罐 | accelerator 加速器 | ECD equivalent circulating density 
循环当量密度 |  |
| PHB Poly(3-hydroxybutyrate) bentonite 
三羟基丁酸膨润土 |  | intermittent 
断断续续的 | alarm 警报 |

---

## Slide 4

本单元的词汇表

| activate 激活 | sensor 传感器 | reading 读数 | muster 集合 |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| HSEO HSE Officer
安全员 | investigate 调查 | install 安装 | gas detector 气体探测器 |
| break down 拆卸 | component 元件 | prior to 在…之前 | roller reamer 滚子划眼器 |
| excess 过量的 | wear 磨损 |  |  |
|  |  |  |  |

---

## Slide 5

Time Log 时间记录表

| Elapsed 
Time(hr) | Comments |
| --- | --- |
| 6.00 | Rig up 30" casing head running tool and riser mandrel.
- Rig up 60T slings and 30" single joint elevators.
- Pick up 30' casing head running tool.
- Pick up riser mandrel and make up.
- Ran in and latch on conductor at CTU.
- Connect mandrel and CHRT to 30" conductor head.
- Rig down 60T slings. |
| 6.00 | Nipple up diverter assembly.
- Pre-Job safety meeting with all personnel.
- Clean and prepare bell nipple.
- Pick up and set overshot in rotary.
- Pick up and install diverter on overshot and nipple up.
- Pressure up system and energize seals. 
- Rig down diverter running tool.
- Fill riser with seawater.
- Observed oil leak on locking dog.
- Observed water leaking from lip seal between diverter and overshot. |

---

## Slide 6

| Elapsed 
Time(hr) | Comments |
| --- | --- |
| 4.00 | Nipple down diverter and repair lip seal.
- Bleed down diverter system.
- Repair leak on locking dogs.
- Rig up diverter running tool.
- Pick up diverter and overshot and inspect lip seal.
- Change out lip seal.
- Run diverter and overshot back in the hole.
- Fill annulus with sea water. No leaks observed.
- Rig down diverter running tool. |
| 1.00 | Function and pressure test diverter.
- Pre-Job safety meeting with all personnel.
- Rig up BX elevators and pick up 1 stand of HWDP. |

---

## Slide 7

| Elapsed 
Time(hr) | Comments |
| --- | --- |
| 5.00 | Diverter test and diverter drill.
- Function test diverter and flow line valves and flush 
 through stbrd and port overboard lines.
- Operate from remote panel and local panel.
- Diverter close - 24 sec.
- Close diverter and pressure test.
- Good test.
- Rack back HWDP stand.
- Clean and clear rig floor.
- Pick up Diverter running tool and install.
- Remove master bushings.
- Unlock 17" Diverter inserts and retrieve to surface.
- Install master bushings.
- Break out running tool and lay down.
- Store 17" Diverter insert packer on rig floor. |
| 6.00 | Make up 24" drill-out BHA |

---

## Slide 8

Shallow Gas 浅层气

Shallow gas is defined as any hydrocarbon-bearing含有油气的 zone which may be encountered at a depth close to the surface or mudline泥线海床. Generally it is not possible to close-in关井 and contain a gas influx溢流 from a shallow zone because weak formation integrity may lead to breakdown被压破 and broaching 给开口to surface / mudline.

### This situation is particularly hazardous有害的 when drilling from a fixed installation or jack-up.

Shallow gas-bearing zones are usually normally pressured. However, the effective increase in pore pressure孔隙压力 due to gas gradient 压力梯度can lead to underbalance 欠平衡 when a shallow gas zone is first penetrated.

---

## Slide 9

Diverter Procedures While Drilling Top Hole

### At first sign of flow:

1. DO NOT stop pumping

### 2. OPEN diverter line to divert/close diverter (both functions should be interlocked 互锁;

3. INCREASE pump strokes to maximum (DO NOT exceed maximum pump speed recommended by the manufacturer or maximum pressure allowed by relief valve泄压阀)

### 4. SWITCH suction on mud pumps to heavy mud in the reserve pit备用罐. ZERO stroke counter泵冲计数.

5. RAISE alarm and ANNOUNCE emergency using the PA system and/or INFORM the rig superintendent钻井总监. POST personnel to look for gas (Jack-up)

6. If the well appears to have stopped flowing after the heavy mud has been displaced STOP pumps and OBSERVE well

7. If the well appears to continue to flow after the heavy mud has been pumped CARRY ON 继续pumping from the active system 活动罐and PREPARE water in a pit for pumping and/or CONSIDER preparing pit with heavier mud. When all mud has been consumed消耗, SWITCH pumps to water. DO NOT stop pumping for as long as the well continues to flow.

---

## Slide 10

Shallow Gas General Drilling Guidelines

Consideration shall be given to drilling a pilot hole导眼 with the 8 ½” or smaller bit size when drilling explorations探井 wells. The BHA design shall include a float valve.

### The ROP shall be controlled to avoid overloading过载 the annulus with cuttings and inducing losses.

All losses shall be cured prior to drilling ahead. Drilling blind盲 or with losses requires the approval from Head of Operations.

Pump pressure shall be closely monitored and all connections (on jack-up) shall be flow checked.

### Pipe shall be pumped out of hole at a moderate rate to prevent swabbing拔活塞.

---

## Slide 11

| Elapsed 
Time(hr) | Comments |
| --- | --- |
| 2.00 | Install diverter bag, hold diverter drills and wash down.
- Hold PJSM on installing 10" diverter bag.
- Install diverter bag.
- Hold well control diverter drill with crew.
- Establish parameters at xxx lpm with x MPa,  wash down and tag cement at xxx m with x kdaN. |
| 1.50 | Drill out cement & conductor float shoe.
- Drill out cement and conductor shoe from xx m to xx m. 
- Clean out rat hole from xx m  to xx m with xxxx lpm, xx MPa,  x-x kdaN WOB, xx RPM, xx N-m Torque. 
- Pump 5 m3 sweep.
- Work back through shoe with rotation while pumping,  straight pull back through. |
| 13.00 | Drill 24" hole from xxx m to xxx m.
- Drill 3m of new formation.
- Rotary: 40 rpm
- Pump rate: xxxx lpm
- SPP: xx MPa on bottom, xx MPa off bottom
- WOB: x kdaN
- Torque: x kN-m on bottom, x kN-m-lbs off bottom
- SW: Up - xxx kdaN, Down - xxx kdaN, Rotating - xxx kdaN. |

---

## Slide 12

| Elapsed 
Time(hr) | Comments |
| --- | --- |
| 1.00 | Circulate and condition wellbore.
- Pump xx m3 hi-vis sweep and circulate well clean.
- Rotate/reciprocate pipe from xxx m to xxx m.
- xxxx lpm / xx MPa
- xx rpm / x3 kN-m.
- Displace well to 1.28 SG NaCl spotting fluid. |
| 1.00 | Trip out of hole from xxx m to xxx m. 
- Pull out of hole on elevators from xxx m to xxx m.
- No tight spots observed. undergauge, overgauge, enlarged, 
- Remove 10" diverter bag.
- Change out elevator inserts.
- Perform flow check / loss rate check. 
- Observed xx m3/hr losses. 
- Keep hole full from trip tank and seawater pump. |
| 8.00 | Make up 24" drilling BHA.
- Make up 24" drilling BHA from xxx m to xxx m.
- P/U 6 x 9 1/2" DC's, Churchill assembly and accelerator 
- Wash down last stand of DP. |

---

## Slide 13

| Elapsed 
Time(hr) | Comments |
| --- | --- |
| 5.50 | Drill 24" hole from xxx m to xxx m.
- Rotary: 80 rpm
- Pump rate: xxxx lpm
- SPP: xx MPa on bottom, xx MPa off bottom
- WOB: xx kdaN
- Torque: xx kN-m on bottom, xx kN-m off bottom
- ECD 1.50 SG
- Take survey on each connection.
- Pump xx m3 hi-vis every 10m drilled or 30 mins. 
- Spot xx m3 PHB pill before connections or surveys.
- Intermittent losses throughout section. |
| 1.50 | H2S alarm activated at xxx m
- Observed 6ppm H2S at flowline sensor. 
 Max H2S reading recorded at 18ppm.
- Spaced out and diverted flow to port overboard line.
- Full rig muster, while Rig HSEO investigate flowline.
- Open Diverter bag and continue to divert flow to port.
- Rotate/reciprocate pipe from xxx m to xxx m.
- Install gas detector at rotary table to continue with drilling operations. |

---

## Slide 14

---

## Slide 15

| Elapsed 
Time(hr) | Comments |
| --- | --- |
| 18.00 | Drill 24" hole from xxx m to 700m Section TD. |
| 2.25 | Circulate and condition wellbore at TD.
- Pump 30m3 Hi-Vis sweeps on each bottoms up.
- Rotate/reciprocate during circulation.
- Displace well to 1.20 sg NaCl spotting fluid. |
| 3.00 | Trip out of the hole from 700m to 250m. 
- Pull out of hole on elevators from 700m to 250m.
- No tight spots observed.
- Perform flow check / loss rate check. 
- Observed 25m3/hr losses. 
- Keep hole full from trip tank and seawater pump. |
| 7.75 | Break down 24" drilling BHA.
- Break 24" drilling BHA  from 250m to surface.
- Rack and lay down components as required.
- Pull 10" diverter packer prior to pulling roller reamer.
- No excess wear observed on any BHA components
- 24" TCI Bit grade - 2-2-BC-A-E-I-WT-TD.
- Clean and clear rig floor.
- Moniter well on trip tank.
- Observe 40m3/hr losses. |

---

## Slide 16

---

## Slide 17

课后作业

用英语写一段你单位表层钻井施工的纪录日志

---
