## Slide 1

钻井英语日报详解DDR of QH-1

第20-21讲

---

## Slide 2

本单元的词汇表

| specification 规格 | benefit 益处 | definitive 决定性的 | hex head bolt 
六角头螺栓 |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| coring 取芯 | adjustment 调整 | suspend 暂停 | essential 必要的 |
| polymer 聚合物 | fluctuation 波动 | premature 
比预期早的 | clean out 通井 |
| universal 通用的 | obstruction 障碍物 | hesitation squeeze
间歇挤注 | mule shoe 斜口管鞋 |
| remedial 补救的 | negligible 可忽略的 | prescribe 规定的 | stripping 强行起下钻 |
| jam 堵塞 | incorporate 包含 | telescope 套叠 | sleeve 袖子 |
| concentric 同圆心的 | successive连续的 | aluminum 铝 | conjunction 结合 |
| deformer 消泡剂 | don 穿上 | dissipate 消散 |  |
|  |  |  |  |

---

## Slide 3

Drill to Core Point in 8.5” Hole钻8.5寸井段至取芯点

---

## Slide 4

| Elapsed
Time (hr) | Comments |
| --- | --- |
| 10.00 | Make up 8-1/2" drilling BHA.
- Break crossovers from wear busing running tool to be used in drill string.
- Pick up BHA components to rig floor.
- Make up 8-1/2" drilling BHA to 857 ft.
- 8-1/2" Smith PDC  7x 13/32 nozzles
- 8-3/8" stabilizer
- Crossover
- Telescope 675 (collar RPM mode, pump on/off mode)
- Crossover
- 1x 6-3/4" Drill Collar
- 8-3/8" Stabilizer
- Float Sub
- 8x 6-3/4" Drill Collar
- Crossover
- 12x 5-1/2" HWDP
- Crossover
- 6-1/2" Hydra Jar
- Crossover
- 4x 5-1/2" HWDP
- Total BHA weight – 27.5 kdaN.
- Weight below jars – 22.5 kdaN. |

---

## Slide 5

---

## Slide 6

| Elapsed
Time (hr) | Comments |
| --- | --- |
| 1.00 | Trip in hole with 8-1/2" drilling assembly.
- Trip in hole from xxx to xxxx with 8-1/2" BHA.
- Perform trip drill
- Monitor well on trip tanks.
- Correct displacement observed. |
| 0.50 | Perform shallow test on MWD tools.
- Perform shallow test on MWD tools at xxx.
- ___ lpm / ___ MPa
- Good test |
| 2.25 | Trip in hole with 8-1/2" drilling assembly.
- Trip in hole from xxxx to xxxx with 8-1/2" BHA.
- Perform trip drill.
- Break circulation at xxxx.
- Monitor well on trip tanks.
- Correct displacement observed. |
| 0.25 | Drops inspection.
- Found 3x hex head bolts on rig floor.
- Performed drops inspection on rig floor and TDS equipment to investigate source of bolts. |

---

## Slide 7

| Elapsed
Time (hr) | Comments |
| --- | --- |
| 14.00 | Repair top drive dolly retaining system.
- Top drive dolly roller retaining plate bolts sheared off.
- Repair top drive dolly retaining system.
- Complete check and torquing of dolly retaining system.
- Service TDS.
Concurrently:
- Continue preparing 1.45SG mud for 8-1/2" section.
- Prepare 8-1/2" coring assembly. |
| 4.50 | Trip in hole with 8-1/2" drilling assembly.
- Trip in hole from xxxx ft to xxxx with 8-1/2" BHA.
- Fill string at xxxx (how to determine the fill up frequency?)
- Perform trip drill.
- Monitor well on trip tanks.
- Correct displacement observed. |
| 3.00 | Wash in hole with 8-1/2" drilling assembly.
- Tagged with 2.5 kdaN at xxxx.
- Wash in hole from xxxx to xxxx with 8-1/2" BHA.
- ___ lpm / ___ MPa
- 20 rpm / ___ kN-m
- Tag top of cement at xxxx with 5 kdaN.
- Pick up and reconfirm tag depth. |


---

## Slide 8

| Elapsed
Time (hr) | Comments |
| --- | --- |
| 2.00 | Perform power choke drills.
- Space out drill string.
- Shut annular preventer & open choke HCR.
- Perform choke drills with both drill crews.
- Stage up pumps to 30 spm while holding 2MPa casing pressure through choke adjustments.
- Stage up pumps down to 0 spm while holding 2MPa casing pressure through choke adjustments.
- Open annular preventer and line up for hard shut in.
- Suspend non essential operations due to elevated heat index. |
| 4.75 | Prepare 1.45SG drilling mud.
- Continue preparing sufficient 1.45SG mud volume to drill 8-1/2" hole section.
- Rotate personnel frequently.
- Suspend non essential operations due to elevated heat index. |
| 5.00 | Drill out 9-5/8" shoe track.
- Wash down and tag top of cement at xxxx.
- Drill out cement and shoe track from xxxx to xxxx.
- ___ lpm / ___ MPa
- 70 rpm / ___ kN-m
- PU/SO/ROT ___/___/___ kdaN
- Observe ROP indication of plugs/landing collar from xxxx to xxxx. |

---

## Slide 9

| Elapsed
Time (hr) | Comments |
| --- | --- |
| 2.00 | Displace to 1.45SG drilling fluid.
- Continue displacing to 1.45SG NaCl polymer mud prior to drilling out 9-5/8" float shoe.
- ___ lpm / ___ MPa
- 20 rpm / __ kN-m
- Flush and fill sand traps, MGS, and all surface equipment. |
| 1.50 | Drill out 9-5/8" shoe track.
- Continue drilling out shoe track from xxxx to xxxx.
- ___ lpm / ___ MPa
- 70 rpm / __ kN-m
- PU/SO/ROT ___/___/___ kdaN
- Observe ROP indication of float shoe from xxxx to xxxx.
- Ream and clean through shoe track 3x.
- No torque fluctuations observed. |
| 0.50 | Drill new formation for leak off test.
- Drill new formation for leak off test from xxxx to xxxx.
- ___ lpm / ___ MPa
- 80 rpm / __ kN-m
- ___ kdaN WOB
- PU/SO/ROT ___/___/___ kdaN
- Ream and clean through shoe track.
- No torque fluctuations observed. |

---

## Slide 10

| Elapsed
Time (hr) | Comments |
| --- | --- |
| 2.00 | Circulate and condition drilling fluid.
- Circulate 2x bottoms up.
- ___ lpm / ___ MPa
- 20 rpm / ___ kN-m
- Condition mud to 1.45SG in/out.
- Confirm new formation sample on shakers. |
| 5.00 | Perform leak off test.
- Rack back stand.
- Make up testing assembly to stump and install pump line.
- Pressure test surface lines.
- 2 / 28 MPa for 5 min / 5 min.
- Good test.
- Pressure up and observe premature sharp pressure drop.
- Troubleshoot and find surface leak.
- Rectify surface leak.
- Pump down string and annulus with cement unit and perform leak off test.
- Pump at constant 40 lpm.
- Observe pressure breakover at ___ MPa.
- EMW LOT value = ___ SG.
- 1.3 m3 pumped / 1.2m3 bled back. |

---

## Slide 11

Extended Leak Off Test

---

## Slide 12

| Elapsed
Time (hr) | Comments |
| --- | --- |
| 5.75 | Drill 8-1/2" hole section from xxxx to xxxx.
- Drilling Parameters:
- ROP: __ - ___ mph (avg ___mph)
- Flow: ___ lpm
- SPP: ____ - ____ MPa
- SWOB: ____ kdaN
- Rotary: 100 - 140 rpm
- STorque: __ - __ kN-m
- MW: 1.45SG
- Background Gas: ___ - ___ %
- PU/SO/FRW: ___/___/___ klbs
- Off-bottom torque: __ kN-m |
| 2.50 | Circulate and condition drilling fluid.
- Circulating parameters:
- ____ lpm / ____ MPa.
- Condition mud to 1.45SG in/out. |
| 12.00 | Pulled out of hole with 8-1/2" drilling assembly.
- Pulled out of hole with 8-1/2" drilling assembly from xxxx to surface.
- Held trip drill, well secured in 53 sec.
- Monitor well on trip tanks.
- Correct displacement observed. |

---

## Slide 13

Cure severe losses

---

## Slide 14

| Comments |
| --- |
| Drill 8-1/2" hole section from xxxx to xxxx.
- Observe downhole losses at xxxx.
- 250 - 300 bph at 425 gpm
- 200 - 230 bph at 200 gpm |
| Pump LRR (Lost Return Response) Pill #2.
- Circulate down string to obtain parameters with reduced flow rate
- Flow: 200 gpm
- SPP: 700 psi
- Break connection at rotary table.
- Drop circsub opening dart.
- Circulate and seated dart, after dart landed to lock sub open.
- Flow: 770 gpm
- SPP: 1850 psi
- Pump 50 bbls of LRRP#2 and displace out of drill pipe.
- Flow; 240 gpm
- SPP: 400 psi |
| Backream 8 1/2" directional BHA
- Backream 8 1/2" directional BHA from 9,130 ft to 8,383 ft.
- 200 - 230 bbl dynamic losses. |
| Flow check for static losses.
- No static losses. Well static. |

---

## Slide 15

| Comments |
| --- |
| Pump out with 8 1/2" Directional BHA
- Pump out with 8 1/2" directional BHA from 8,383 ft to 8,071 ft.
- 200 bbl dynamic losses |
| Drop universal closing dart (UCD)
- Drop UCD circsub closing dart at 8,071 ft
- Circulate and seat dart to circ sub closed.
- Flow: 380 gpm
- SPP: 1,380 psi |
| POOH to surface. M/U clean-out BHA.
- 8 1/2 " PDC Bit Nozzles removed
- Bit Sub (With Non Ported Float Valve)
- 8 1/4" String Stabilizer
- DAV MX CircSub Catcher
- DAV MX CircSub Valve Sub
- HyPR
- 6.5" DC
- Crossover
- 2 x 5 1/2" HWDP (2 joints)
- 6.5" Jar (with X/O's UH and DH)
- 5 x 5 1/2" HWDP (5 joints)
- 6 1/2" Accelerator (with X/O's - UH and DH)
- 3 x 5 1/2" HWDP (3 joints)
-  Monitor well through trip tank,
- 8 - 10 bph static losses |

---

## Slide 16

| Comments |
| --- |
| RIH with 8-1/2" clean out BHA
- RIH with 8 1/2" clean out BHA to bottom
- Monitor well through trip tank,
- 8 - 10 bph static losses.
- Fill up string every 25 stands.
- Pump rate: 250 gpm
- 55 - 75 bph dynamic losses |
| Spot 75 bbl of LRRP #3
- Pump 75 bbl of LRRP #3
- Bit depth 9,138 ft
- Pump Rate: 375 gpm
- SPP: 765 psi
- Loss rate: 400 bph |
| POOH with 8-1/2" clean out BHA above the LCM pill.
Attempt to circulate through choke
- Close annular BOP & attempt to circulate through choke at 100 gpm, 20 psi. Observe no returns.
- Open annular BOP and circulate hole
- 100 gpm | 240 psi
- 130 - 140 bph dynamic losses |

---

## Slide 17

| Comments |
| --- |
| Monitor static & dynamic losses at xxxx.
Circulate hole at:
- 100 gpm | 240 psi | 10 minutes
- 130 - 140 bph dynamic losses
- 200 gpm | 360 psi | 10 minutes
- 220 - 260 bph dynamic losses
- 300 gpm | 580 psi | 10 minutes
- 390 - 400 bph dynamic losses
- 400 gpm | 890 psi | 10 minutes
- 550 - 570 bph dynamic losses
- Stop circulation and monitor static losses
- No static losses.
- Meantime reciprocate string |
| Pump out with 8-1/2" clean out BHA from 7,819 ft to 7,000 ft.
- Pump out of hole with 8 1/2" clean out BHA
- 60 gpm | 150 psi | 60 bph dynamic losses
- Backream obstructions from 7,458 ft to 7,351 ft
- RPM: 30 | Torque: 4 - 14 klb-ft
- 140 gpm | 280 psi
- Monitor well through trip tank while tripping out
- No static losses |

---

## Slide 18

| Comments |
| --- |
| Spot 75 bbl of LRRP #3
- Pump & displace 75 bbl of LRRP #3 at 7,000 ft
- Monitor dynamic losses while pumping LRRP #3
- 100 gpm | 230 psi | 60 bph dynamic losses
- 200 gpm | 380 psi | 150 - 180 bph dynamic losses
- 300 gpm | 560 psi | 220 - 250 bph dynamic losses
- 400 gpm | 850 psi | 480 - 530 bph dynamic losses |
| POOH with 8-1/2" clean out BHA
- POOH with 8 1/2" clean out BHA from 7,000 ft to 5,831 ft. |
| Perform hesitation squeeze.
- Close annular BOP and confirm line up through open kill.
- With annular closed and fully closed choke performhesitation squeeze:
- 70 gpm | 160 psi.
- 110 gpm | 195 psi
- 150 gpm | 205 psi
- Observe no pressure after stop pumps.
- Total volume squeezed into formation: 35 bbls. |
| Circulate and monitor dynamic losses at 5,831 ft
- Open annular BOP
- Circulate hole and monitor losses
- 400 gpm | 790 psi
- 230 bph dynamic losses |

---

## Slide 19

| Comments |
| --- |
| POOH with 8-1/2" clean out BHA |
| Trip in hole with 5 1/2" DP & mule shoe
- PJSM
- M/U 4" mule shoe
- Trip in hole with 5 1/2" DP from surface to 9,088 ft.
- Monitor well through trip tank, 3 - 12 bbl static losses |
| Circulate and monitor dynamic losses
Circulate hole:
- 0.5 bpm | 170 psi | no returns
- 1.0 bpm | 230 psi | 48 bph dynamic losses
- 1.5 bpm | 250 psi | 62 - 65 bph dynamic losses
- 2.0 bpm | 260 psi | 100 - 105 bph dynamic losses
- 4.0 bpm | 290 psi | 210 bph dynamic losses |
| M/U cement assembly & Pressure test surface lines
- M/U FOSV & SES to cement string. Connect cement lines.
- Pressure test cement and surface lines to 250 psi / 3,000 psi for 5 / 5 mins. |

---

## Slide 20

| Comments |
| --- |
| Pump & displace cement slurry
- Line up rig pumps to cement string
- Pump 55 bbl of 13.2 ppg Mudpush II spacer ahead at 5 - 6 bpm
- Line up cement unit to cement string
- Pump 35 bbl of 15.0 ppg G class balanced cement plug at 4 bpm.
- Displace cement with 20 bbl of 13.2 ppg Mudpush II spacer behind at 5.7 bpm
- Continue to displace cement with 161 bbl of 11.3 ppg mud at 5.7 bpm.
- Reduce rate to 3 bpm for the last 11 bbl.
- Total losses during cement job: 267 bbl
- CIP (cement in place) at 20:30 |
| POOH cement string
- POOH 4" mule shoe and 5 1/2" DP cement string from 9,098 ft to 8,993 ft.
- Tripping speed 4 min/stand
- POOH cement string dry 
- No static losses |
| Circulate & flush string
- Drop foam ball and circulate bottoms up.
- 420 gpm | 510 psi - 700 psi
- No dynamic losses |

---

## Slide 21

| Comments |
| --- |
| Perform hesitation cement squeeze
- Line up cement unit to cement string.
- Close Annular BOP.
- Squeeze 28 bbl of cement theoretically:
- Squeeze 2.6 bbl at 0.3 bpm | 30 - 500 psi
- Hold pressure for 10 min, decreasing from 500 psi to 166 psi
- Squeeze 25.4 bbl at 0.5 bpm | 430 - 450 psi
- Hold pressure for 2 min, decreasing from 430 psi to 30 psi.
- Open Annular BOP |
| Circulate hole
- Flow check
- No static losses
- Drop foam ball and circulate bottoms up.
- 420 gpm | 510 psi
- No dynamic losses |
| POOH cement string
- POOH 4" mule shoe and 5 1/2" DP cement string from 6,500 ft to 3,911 ft.
- No static losses
- POOH cement string dry |

---

## Slide 22

### Hesitation Squeeze Method Procedure

During a remedial squeeze cementing job procedure, the rate at which cement filtrate leaks into the formation is lower than the minimum pump rate of most field equipment. Therefore, maintaining a constant differential pressure is nearly impossible, especially when one is trying not to exceed the formation fracture pressure.

A solution to this problem is the hesitation squeeze pumping method procedure. This hesitation squeeze procedure involves the intermittent application of pressure—by pumping at a rate of 1/4 to 1/2 bbl/min—separated by an interval of 10 to 20 min for pressure falloff caused by filtrate loss to the formation. The initial leakoff is normally fast because there is no filter cake. As the cake builds up and the applied pressure increases, the filtration periods become longer and the differences between the initial and final pressures become smaller. At the end of the job, the pressure falloff becomes negligible. The slurry volumes necessary for this technique are usually much less than those required for a running squeeze.


A loose formation normally requires a long hesitation period to begin building squeeze pressure. A first hesitation period of 30 min or more is not unreasonable. A much shorter initial hesitation period (possibly 5 min) while squeeze cement procedure is normally sufficient for tight formations (Grant and White, 1987). Instead of prescribing pump times, the best method is to continue pumping as long as squeeze pressure continues to build.

---

## Slide 23

Core in 8.5” Hole

---

## Slide 24

| Elapsed
Time (hr) | Comments |
| --- | --- |
| 2.00 | Jet wellhead and BOPs.
- Function BSR while out of hole.
- Run in hole with wear bushing running tool and pull wear bushing.
- Run in hole with jetting tool on 5-1/2" DP stand and space out.
- Function BOPs
- UPR Close 18.7 Gallons, 18 s Close / 21 s open
- MPR Close 19.4 Gallons. 15 s Close / 20 s open
- LPR Close 20.7 Gallons. 16 s Close / 17 s open
- Jet wellhead and BOP components.
- 5 rpm, 2500 lpm / 2Mpa
- Pull out of hole with jetting tool on 5-1/2" DP stand. |
| 1.50 | Secure TDS saver sub bolts.
- Observed 4x TDS saver sub bolts sheared off.
- Backed out remaining grade 10 bolts, replaced all with new grade 8 bolts and re-torqued. |
| 3.50 | Run in hole with BOP testing assembly.
- Run in hole with 5x stands 5-1/2" DP.
- Make up test plug.
- Run in hole on 5-1/2" DP single @ 2x 3m pups.
- Make up FOSV, side entry sub, & TDS.
- Drain BOP stack.
- Land out test plug at xx m.
- Line up SOV below test plug to trip tank gravity feed line.
- Install pump line to side entry sub. |

---

## Slide 25

| Elapsed
Time (hr) | Comments |
| --- | --- |
| 10.00 | Pressure test 18-3/4" BOP components.
- Flush lines perform line test.
- Perform BOP tests to 2/35 Mpa for 5/5 min. (why low pressure test first?)
- Test #1 - Annular, Standpipe valve 14, choke valve 32, kill valve 11.
- Test #2 - UPR, upper IBOP, choke HCR.
- Test #3 - MPR, lower IBOP, manual kill valve.
- Test #4 - LPR, lower IBOP.
- Break surface testing assembly.
- Stop all non-essential work during elevated heat index.
- Back out 5-1/2" DP landing string from test plug and pull out of hole.
- Test #5 - BSR to 2/35 Mpa for 5/5 min.
- Run in hole with 5-1/2" DP landing string and engage test plug.
- Pull out of hole with landing string, test plug, and 5x stand 5-1/2" DP tail pipe.
- Make up grey valve & FOSV to stand and rack back for contingency coring stripping stand. |
| 1.00 | Install wear bushing.
- Run in hole with wear bushing running tool and install wear bushing at xx m.
- ID xx cm
- Pull out of hole with wear bushing running tool.
- Clean and clear rig floor of unnecessary equipment. |

---

## Slide 26

| Elapsed
Time (hr) | Comments |
| --- | --- |
| 10.50 | Make up 8-1/2" core barrel assembly.
- Make up HT-30 crossover to FOSV.
- Change BX inserts to 5".
- Pick up BHA components to rig floor.
- Make up 8-1/2" outer core barrel BHA to 105m.
- 8-1/2" Corehead 
- 12x 7-1/4" Core barrel w/ 8-7/16" stabilizer
- Make up inner core barrel assembly.
- 1st inner barrel pre-fitted with core catcher shoe
- Make up remaining 11x inner barrels with NRITS (non rotating inner tube stabilizer) 
 connectors by hand
- Make up LDA pin to upper box on final inner barrel 
- vendor adjust and confirm space out |
| 4.50 | Make up 8-1/2" coring assembly.
- Change BX inserts to 5-1/2".
- Make up and run in hole with remaining BHA components to 300m.
- Float sub w/ ported float
- DAV circulation sub assembly
- Confirmed 1.25" diversion ball passed through
- 6x 6-3/4" drill collar
- Hydra Jar
- 6x 6-3/4" drill collar
- Crossover
- 4x 5-1/2" HWDP
- 16 kdaN weight below jar. |

---

## Slide 27

---

## Slide 28

---

## Slide 29

The Baker Hughes JamBuster™ jam mitigation coring system incorporates telescoping inner core barrel sleeves into the HT series™ heavy-duty core barrels to eliminate the effects of core jamming. Concentric inner core barrel sleeves automatically telescope if a core becomes jammed in the core barrel, allowing coring to continue without interruption.


Depending upon the barrel size, the system can accommodate three to four successive jams before needing to pull out of the hole, reducing coring trips needed to recover the same amount of core.


The JamBuster system’s aluminum inner sleeves are secured to the non-rotating inner barrel by shear pins. Shear strength is set according to formation properties. When a jam is encountered within the sleeve, increasing weight-on-bit (WOB) causes the inner shear pins to shear, releasing the sleeve and jammed core to telescope up within the barrel.


As the new core is cut, the second sleeve begins to fill. A second jam will shear the pins securing the remaining JamBuster system sleeve, releasing it to telescope up the inner barrel. When used in conjunction with a core jam indicator tool, a third jam or filled barrel will activate an internal jam indicator valve. This sends an increased standpipe pressure to the surface as a signal that the coring assembly must be pulled from the hole.

---

## Slide 30

| Elapsed
Time (hr) | Comments |
| --- | --- |
| 1.00 | Top drive service.
- Hold trip drill - well secure in 46 sec.
- Service top drive.
- Torque saver sub locking ring bolts.
- Perform drops inspection. |
| 10.50 | Run in hole with 8-1/2" coring assembly.
- Run in hole with 8-1/2" coring assembly from xxx to xxxx.
- Break circulation every 600m.
- Monitor well on trip tanks.
- Correct displacement observed. |
| 0.50 | Pre spud safety meeting.
- Discussed coring parameters, hazards, and well control procedures with all involved. |
| 2.00 | Wash in hole and tag bottom.
- Simulate/practice coring connections with drill crew.
- Record hookloads at various block positions 1 stand off bottom:
- 30m: ___ kdaN
- 20m: ___ kdaN
- 10m: ___ kdaN
- 0 m: ___ kdaN
- Wash in hole and tag bottom at xxxx with 3 kdaN.
- ____ lpm / ___ MPa
- Tag soft fill and wash/work through from xxxx to xxxx.
- Tag and reconfirm bottom at xxxx with 3 kdaN SO |

---

## Slide 31

| Elapsed
Time (hr) | Comments |
| --- | --- |
| 4.00 | Circulate and condition mud.
- Circulate 1x bottoms up.
- Observe density and rheology fluctuations in returns.
- Condition mud to consistent density and rheology.
- Record pump pressures.
- 700 lpm:  900 lpm:   - 1100 lpm: 
- Break connection and release core barrel diversion ball.
- Circulate ball on seat at 400 lpm.
- Observe pressure increase from 2.5MPa to 3.5MPa.
- Record pump pressures.
- 700 lpm:     900 lpm:  - 1100 lpm: |
|  | Core 8-1/2" hole section from xxxx to xxxx.
- Engage corehead from xxxx to xxxx.
- Observe ROP drop and WOB not drilling off.
- Stop rotation, pick up 1 kdaN and re-engage core head.
- Coring parameters:
- ROP: 2 - 10 mph (avg 2.3 mph)
- Flow:   - SPP:    - SWOB:   - Rotary: xx rpm  - STorque:  - MW: 
- Background Gas: ___ %
- Mustered for H2S/abandon drill |

---

## Slide 32

| Elapsed
Time (hr) | Comments |
| --- | --- |
| 6.00 | Core 8-1/2" hole section from xxxx to xxxx.
- Coring parameters:
- ROP
- Flow: - SPP: - SWOB: - Rotary: - STorque: - MW: 
- Background Gas: _____ % |
| 6.00 | Core 8-1/2" hole section from xxxx to xxxx.
- Coring parameters:
- ROP: 
- Flow:  - SPP:  - SWOB:  - Rotary:  - STorque:    - MW: 
- Background Gas:  %
- Flow check 10 mins at connection.
- Well static.
- Flow checked while diagnosing observed 0.5m3 gain.
- Found source on surface. |
|  | Continued to core 8-1/2” ….. |

---

## Slide 33

| Elapsed
Time (hr) | Comments |
| --- | --- |
| 2.00 | Circulate wellbore clean.
- Cease rotary and pick up to break off core.
- 150kdaN PU.
- No overpull observed.
- Ran in to xxxx m.
- No obstructions tagged.
- Circulated bottoms up. - 1000 lpm / 9Mpa. - 3 rpm |
| 2.00 | Pump out of hole to 9-5/8" casing shoe.
- Pump out of hole from xxxx to xxxx.
- 800 lpm / 7MPa.
- 7 m/min pulling speed.
- No overpull observed.
- Flow check on trip tank 30 min.
- Observe gain due to foaming.
- Add defoamer and wait for volume to stabilize.
- Well static. |
| 8.25 | Trip out of hole with 8-1/2" coring run #1.
- Pull out of hole from xxxx to xxxx.
- 7 m/min per core retrieval tripping schedule.
- Monitor well on trip tanks.
- Correct displacement observed |

---

## Slide 34

| Elapsed
Time (hr) | Comments |
| --- | --- |
| 1.25 | Circulate bottoms up.
- Circulated bottoms up per core retrieval tripping schedule.
- 1000 lpm / 7MPa.
- Flow check on trip tanks.
- Well static. |
| 4.50 | Trip out of hole with 8-1/2" coring run #1.
- Pull out of hole from xxxx to xxxx.
- 3 m/min per core retrieval tripping schedule from xxxx to xxxx  
- 2m/min per core retrieval tripping schedule from xxxx to xxxx
- Monitor well on trip tanks.
- Correct displacement observed. |
| 0.75 | Circulate bottoms up.
- Circulated bottoms up per core retrieval tripping schedule.
- 800 lpm / 5MPa.
- Flow check on trip tanks.
- Well static. |

---

## Slide 35

| Elapsed
Time (hr) | Comments |
| --- | --- |
| 7.50 | Trip out of hole with 8-1/2" coring run #1.
- 1.5 m/min per core retrieval tripping schedule from xxx to xxx.
- 1 m/min per core retrieval tripping schedule from xxx to xxx.
- 1.5 ft/min per core retrieval tripping schedule from xxx to xxx.
- Lay down 1x single 5-1/2" HWDP & jar.
- Monitor well on trip tanks.
- Correct displacement observed. |
| 3.75 | Trip out of hole with 8-1/2" coring run #1.
- Rig floor restricted and all personnel don BA sets prior to pulling final BHA sections.
- Break Churchill assembly and hoist.
- Observe 69 ppm H2S at connection.
- Clear rig floor and wait for gas to dissipate.
- Break float sub.
- Retrieve 1-1/4" diversion ball.
- Observe 92 ppm H2S at connection.
- Clear rig floor and wait for gas to dissipate.
- Hoist outer core barrel assembly and secure in rotary at working height.
- Break LDA (long displacement adjustment) sub.
- Observe 65 ppm H2S at connection.
- Clear rig floor and wait for gas to dissipate.
- Monitor well on trip tanks.
- Correct displacement observed. |

---

## Slide 36

| Elapsed
Time (hr) | Comments |
| --- | --- |
| 7.50 | Pull and lay down inner core barrels.
- Install lifting cap & sling to LDA
- Hoist, break and lay down 2x empty inner core barrels.
- Hoist, cut, and lay down 10x inner core barrels.
- Hoist inner barrel string to working height
- Set core barrel clamp
- Install hydraulic core splitter at inner barrel stabilizer window and cut core
- Break out inner barrel by hand
- Latch inner barrel in lay down frame
- Transfer laydown frame to cantilever core processing area
- No H2S observed at any inner barrel connections.
- Total core recovery = xx m recovered / xx m cut = ___ % |
| 1.50 | Trip out of hole with outter core barrel assembly.
- Break and lay down LDA sub.
- Make up lift sub to outter core barrel assembly.
- Trip out of hole with outter core barrels to surface
- Core head grade: 1-1-NO-A-X-I-PN-PR.
- No bit balling observed.
- Clean & clear rig floor.
- Monitor well on trip tank.
- Well static. |

---

## Slide 37

| Elapsed
Time (hr) | Comments |
| --- | --- |
| 3.00 | Make up 8-1/2" core barrel assembly.
- Make up 8-1/2" outer core barrel BHA to xx m.
- 8-1/2" TC-406 Corehead.
- 4 x 7-1/4" Core barrel with 8-7/16" stabilizer.
- Make up inner core barrel assembly.
- 1st inner barrel pre-fitted with core catcher shoe.
- Make up remaining 4 x inner barrels with NRITS connectors by hand.
- Make up LDA pin to upper box on final inner barrel.
- Baker adjust & confirm space out.
- Unable to land out inner barrel to confirm proper space out.
- Monitor well on trip tank.
- Well static. |
| 2.00 | Lay down coring BHA.
- Trip out of hole with inner core barrel assembly.
- Break & lay down LDA sub.
- Make up lift sub to outer core barrel assembly.
- Trip out of hole with outer core barrels to surface & rack back.
- Monitor well on trip tank.
- Well static. |

---

## Slide 38

| Elapsed
Time (hr) | Comments |
| --- | --- |
| 3.50 | Re-configure outer core barrels & make up 8-1/2" core barrel assembly.
- Make up 8-1/2" outer core barrel BHA to xx m.
- 8-1/2" TC-406 Corehead
- 4 x 7-1/4" Core barrel with 8-7/16" stabilizer.
- Monitor well on trip tank.
- Well static. |
| 1.00 | Flowline seal failure.
- Observe pressure loss on flowline seals.
- Visually inspect diverter housing in the moonpool area.
- Observe flowline seal failure.
- Connected 2'' hose to B-section valves on the wellhead.
- Line up B-section to the trip tank gravity line & monitor well on trip tanks.
- Well static. |
| 0.75 | Trip out outer core barrels & rack back.
- Trip out 8-1/2" outer core barrel BHA to surface.
- 8-1/2" TC-406 Corehead.
- 4 x 7-1/4" Core barrel with 8-7/16" stabilizer.
- Monitor well on trip tank.
- Correct displacement observed. |

---

## Slide 39

| Elapsed
Time (hr) | Comments |
| --- | --- |
| 7.00 | Repair 125T BOP crane cylinders.
- Troubleshoot & repair 125T BOP trolley rotating cylinders.
- Troubleshoot and repair leaking drag chain fitting & leak on top of BOP trolley carriage.
- Align BOP trolley and take tension on 18.75'' BOP.
- Monitor well on trip tanks.
- Well static. |
| 2.50 | Repair flowline seal on diverter.
- Hold PJSM with all personnel prior working on diverter.
- Pick up 27.5'' Diverter running tool.
- J into diverter R/T to KFDJ500 diverter.
- Pull diverter to surface inspect & clean flowline seals.
- Leaking seal area found on forward side of diverter.
- Rope access inspect & clean diverter housing. |
| 8.00 | Repair flowline seal on diverter.
- Hold PJSM with all personnel prior working on diverter.
- Rope access inspect & clean diverter housing.
- Split diverter & remove lower flowline seal.
- Clean seal face & replace flowline seal.
- Land top section back on diverter.
- Torque diverter top section & re-install in the diverter housing.
- Pressure up overshot packer and flowline seals. |

---

## Slide 40

| Elapsed
Time (hr) | Comments |
| --- | --- |
| 2.00 | Trip in 8-1/2" core barrel assembly out of the derrick.
- RIH with 8-1/2" outer core barrel BHA to xx m.
- 8-1/2" TC-406 Corehead S/N: 5316702.
- 4 x 7-1/4" Core barrel with 8-7/16" stabilizer.
- Monitor well on trip tank.
- Well static. |
| 2.00 | Pick up inner barrel & confirm space out.
- Make up inner core barrel assembly.
- 1st inner barrel pre-fitted with core catcher shoe.
- Make up remaining 4 x inner barrels with NRITS connectors by hand.
- Make up LDA pin to upper box on final inner barrel.
- Baker adjust & confirm space out. |
| 4.75 | Make up 8-1/2" coring assembly.
- Change BX inserts to 5-1/2".
- Make up and run in hole with remaining BHA components to xxx m.
- Float sub w/ ported float.
- DAV circulation sub assembly.
- 9 x 6-3/4" DC.
- Hydra Jar.
- 5 x 6-3/4" DC.
- Crossover
- 3 x 5-1/2" HWD |

---

## Slide 41

| Elapsed
Time (hr) | Comments |
| --- | --- |
| 0.50 | Planned rig maintenance.
- Change out diverter panel PRV.
- E-Hawk perform chair re-boot & check alarm systems.
- Service rig floor auxiliary equipment.
- Monitor well on trip tanks.
- Well static. |
| 4.75 | Run in hole with 8-1/2" coring assembly.
- Run in hole with 8-1/2" coring assembly from xxx to xxxx.
- Break circulation every 700 m.
- Held Pit Drill with Loggers & Derrickman.
- Held Trip Drill with crews.
- Well secured in 50 secs.
- Monitor well on trip tanks.
- Correct displacement observed. |
| 4.00 | Operations suspended due to Heat Index Level 1 conditions.
- All non essential personnel mustered to galley for Qatar Gas safety stand down with on shift crews.
- Review Drilling & wells Synergy #64491.
- IP slipped while pulling on manual make tong Emerald Driller.
- Review Dukhan-FAC.
- Infected wound due to small laceration on lower right leg.
- Review Drilling & Wells Synergy #64490.
- IP hit by 2” rubber hose during lifting H10.
- Monitor well on trip tank. |

---

## Slide 42

| Elapsed
Time (hr) | Comments |
| --- | --- |
| 0.50 | Function test BOP's.
- Function BOP's:
- Ann Close 92.6 Gallons, 30's Close / 17's open.
- UPR Close 18.7 Gallons, 18 s Close / 21 s open.
- MPR Close 19.4 Gallons. 15 s Close / 20 s open.
- LPR Close 20.7 Gallons. 16 s Close / 17 s open.
- Flush well control equipment with mud. |
| 8.50 | Run in hole with 8-1/2" coring assembly.
- Run in hole with 8-1/2" coring assembly from xxxx to xxxx.
- Break circulation every 700m.
- Trip in from xxxx to xxxx & make up top drive. |
| 1.00 | Wash in hole in from xxxx & tag bottom at xxxx.
- Record hook loads at various block positions 1 stand off bottom:
- 30 m: 
- 20 m: 
- 10 m: 
- 0 m: 
- Wash in hole & tag bottom at xxxx with 2 kdaN.
- 1000 lpm/ 6MPa.
- Tag soft fill & wash/work through from xxxx to xxxx.
- Tag & reconfirm TD with 5 kdaN SO |

---

## Slide 43

| Elapsed
Time (hr) | Comments |
| --- | --- |
| 1.00 | Circulate and condition mud.
- Circulate 1x bottoms up.
- Observe density and rheology fluctuations in returns.
- Condition mud to consistent density and rheology.
- Record pump pressures at various flow rate.
- Break connection and release core barrel diversion ball.
- Circulate ball on seat at 500 lpm.
- Observe pressure increase from 2.5MPa to 3.5MPa.
- Record pump pressures.
- 1000 lpm: 7Mpa.
- Record SCR's at Core point .
- MP1 20 stks __MPa, 30 stks __MPa, 40 stks __MPa.
- MP2 20 stks __MPa, 30 stks __MPa, 40 stks __MPa. |
| 4.25 | Service loop hydraulic leak - Trip out to shoe.
- Top drive service loop extend & retract hose leaking.
- Isolated top drive hydraulic supply systems & secure well with TIW.
- Trip out of hole to 9-5/8" casing shoe.
- Cap off burst hydraulic hose.
- Trip back to bottom.
- Monitor well on the trip tank.
- Correct displacement observed. |

---

## Slide 44

| Elapsed
Time (hr) | Comments |
| --- | --- |
| 24 | Core 8-1/2" hole section from xxxx to xxxx.
- Engage corehead from xxxx to xxxx (1m).
- Coring parameters:
- ROP: 1 – 2.5 mph (avg 1.8 mph).
- Flow: 
- SPP: .
- SWOB: 
- Rotary: 
- STorque: 
- Background Gas: 0 - 0.01 %. |
| 2.75 | Circulate wellbore clean.
- Stop rotary & pick up to break off core.
- Cycle pumps 2 x 1000 lpm to 0 lpm & back up to 1000 lpm.
- 18 kdaN overpull observed to break off the core.
- Picked up 5m to verify core break off.
- Ran in to xxxx.
- No obstructions tagged.
- Circulated 1.5 bottoms up.
- Flow rate: 
- SPP: 
- Rotary: 5 rpm.
- STOR: |

---

## Slide 45

| Elapsed
Time (hr) | Comments |
| --- | --- |
| 1.50 | Pump out of hole to 9-5/8" casing shoe.
- Pump out of hole from xxxx to xxxx.
- 800 lpm / 5 Mpa.
- 8 m/min pulling speed.
- No overpull observed.
- Flow check at the 9-5/8" casing shoe.
- Well static. |
| 8.00 | Trip out of hole with 8-1/2" coring run assembly #2.
- Pull out of hole from xxxx to xxxx.
- 7 m/min per core retrieval tripping schedule.
- Monitor well on trip tanks.
- Correct displacement observed. |
| 1.00 | Flush drill sting & coring BHA. (for H2S)
- Circulated one bottoms up.
- Flow rate: 
- SPP: 
- Flow check well on trip tanks.
- Well static |

---

## Slide 46

| Elapsed
Time (hr) | Comments |
| --- | --- |
| 9.00 | Trip out of hole with 8-1/2" coring run assembly #2.
- Pull out of hole from xxxx to xxx.
- 4 m/min per core retrieval tripping schedule.
- Pull out of hole from xxx to xxx.
- 3 m/min per core retrieval tripping schedule.
- Pull out of hole from xxx to xxx.
- 2 m/min per core retrieval tripping schedule.
- Monitor well on trip tanks.
- Correct displacement observed. |
| 1.00 | Flush drill sting & coring BHA. (for H2S)
- Circulated one bottoms up.
- Flow rate: 
- SPP: 
- Flow check on trip tank.
- Well static. |
| 7.00 | Trip out of hole with 8-1/2" coring run assembly #2.
- Pull out of hole from xxx to xxx.
- 1.5 m/min per core retrieval tripping schedule.
- Pull out of hole from xxx to xx.
- 1 m/min per core retrieval tripping schedule.
- Pull out of hole from xx to xx.
- 0.5 m/min per core retrieval tripping schedule. |

---

## Slide 47

| Elapsed
Time (hr) | Comments |
| --- | --- |
| 6.00 | Trip out of hole with 8-1/2" coring run assembly # 2.
- Rig floor restricted and all personnel don BA sets prior to pulling final BHA sections.
- Break churchill assembly and hoist.
- Observe 0 ppm H2S at connection.
- Break float sub.
- Retrieve 1-1/4" diversion ball.
- Observe 18 ppm H2S at connection.
- Clear rig floor and wait for gas to dissipate.
- Install lifting cap & sling to LDA.
- Hoist, break and lay down 1 x empty inner core barrel.
- Hoist, cut, and lay down 3 x inner core barrels.
- No H2S observed at any inner barrel connections.
- Racked back outer barrels.
- Broke off core head.
- Core head grade: 1-1-NO-A-X-I-PN-BHA.
- Observed 2 plugged nozzle ports.
- Cleaned & cleared rig floor.
- Monitor well on trip tanks.
- Correct displacement observed. |
| 16.25 | Perform rig repair.
- Repair hose on rig floor access basket.
- Change out TDS-1000 hydraulic service loop.
- Inspect Hydra racker R111 and change out pressure sensor cable. |

---
