## Slide 1

钻井英语日报详解DDR of QH-1

第三讲

---

## Slide 2

本单元的词汇表

| E-line 测井电缆 | transfer 转移 | equipment 设备 | sheave 滑轮 |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| open hole 裸眼 | string 管串 | radioactive 辐射的 | source 源 |
| load 装载 | log up 上测 | log down 下测 | perform 执行 |
| checkshot 校验点 | acquire 获得 | station 站点 | internet 网络 |
| communication 沟通 | unit 部件 | involve 包括 | bail 吊臂 |
| TRS tubular running service
下套管服务 | crossover 变扣 | cantilever 悬臂 | electrician 电气师 |
| cross thread 错扣 | back out 倒扣 | float shoe 浮鞋 | float collar 浮箍 |
| casing tally 套管串表 | bakerlok 丝扣锁胶 | issue 问题 | surface casing 表套 |
| jam unit 扭矩圈数仪 | cord 电线 | centralizer 扶正器 | stop collar 限位箍 |

---

## Slide 3

本单元的词汇表

| fix 修理 | backup 备用的 | defective 有缺陷的 | safety stand down
安全暂停 |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| incident 事故 | side door elevator 
侧开式吊卡 | prevent 阻止 | exposure 暴露 |
| hazard 危险 | identify 识别 | pinch 夹 | on the fly 动态地 |
| cement head 水泥头 | casing stump 套管桩 | troubleshoot 解决 | isolate 隔离 |
| achieve 完成 | primary 主要的 | wiper plug 胶塞 | lead cement 领浆 |
| tail cement 尾浆 | bump 碰 | FCP Final Circulating Pressure 循环终压 | cease 停止 |
| annulus 环空 | leak off 泄漏 | volume 体积 | concurrent 同时的 |
| wait on cement 侯凝 | moon pool 月池 | attach 连接 | sling 钢绳 |

---

## Slide 4

本单元的词汇表

| organize 组织 | build mud 配泥浆 | service 维保 | slack off 下压 |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| slump 陷落 | static 静态的 | rough cut 粗割 | drain 排水 |
| JSA job safety analysis
工作安全分析 | hoist 提拉 | cold cutter 冷割刀 | bevel 斜角 |
| dress 修整 | test port 试压孔 | lockdown screw
下锁紧顶丝 | pull test 拉力测试 |
|  |  |  |  |
|  |  |  |  |
|  |  |  |  |
|  |  |  |  |
|  |  |  |  |

---

## Slide 5

Time Log 时间记录表

| Elapsed 
Time(hr) | Comments |
| --- | --- |
| 5.00 | Rig Up E-Line.
- Hold PJSM with logging crew prior to picking up tools.
- Transfer e-line equipment to rig floor.
- Rig up sheaves and make up logging tool string #1. |
| 5.25 | 24" Open hole logging run #1.
- Logging tool string #1: MSIP-PPC-EMS. (Modular Sonic Imaging Platform, Powered Positioning Caliper, Environment Measurement Sonde 探头)
- Log down and tag bottom at 690 ft.
- Log up from TD to surface at 600 mph.
- Log up to surface.
- Monitor well on trip tank. 
- Observe 40m3/hr losses. |
| 3.75 | Lay down logging tool string #1 and pick up logging tool string #2.
- Lay down tool string #1: MSIP-PPC-EMS.
- Pick up tool string #2: AIT-PEX. (Array Induction Imager Tool, Platform Express)
- Radioactive source loaded |

---

## Slide 6


wireline unit 测井单元

upper sheave 上滑轮

stuffing box 防喷盒

lubricator 防喷管

swab valve 抽汲阀

master valve 主阀

wireline cutter 割刀

---

## Slide 7

---

## Slide 8

| Elapsed 
Time(hr) | Comments |
| --- | --- |
| 7.00 | 24" Open hole logging run #2.
- Logging tool string #2: AIT-PEX.
- Log down and tag bottom at 690 m.
- Log up from TD to surface at 400 mph.
- Monitor well on trip tank. 
- Observe 42m3/hr losses. |
| 3.75 | Lay down logging tool string #2 and pick up logging tool string #3.
- Lay down tool string #2: AIT-PEX.
- Pick up tool string #3: VSI-4. |
| 12.00 | 24" Open hole logging run #3.
- Logging toolstring #3: VSI-4.(Versatile 万能的Seismic Imager)
- RIH and perform 2 x checkshots on the way in hole.
- Acquire VSI-4 data (21 stations)
- Log up from TD to surface at 400 mph.
- Pull out of the hole.
- Monitor well on trip tank. 
- Observe 540 bbls/hr losses.
Note: Extra time taken for run # 3 due to intermittent internet communication at logging unit. |

---

## Slide 9

Telemetry 遥测Gamma ray 伽马射线cartridge 弹药筒shuttle  梭子geophone 地震检波器

---

## Slide 10

Hydrocarbon 碳氢物

Reservoir  储藏

Net 净余的

Gross 总共的

Porosity 孔隙度

Saturation 饱和度

Clay 泥岩

Sand 砂岩

Matrix 基质

---

## Slide 11


Limestone 石灰岩

Shale 页岩

Granite 花岗岩

Resistivity 电阻率

Nuclear 核的

Acoustic 声学的

Magnetic 磁的

Resonance 共振

Permeability 渗透率

Sampling 采样

Fracture 裂缝

---

## Slide 12

Gamma Ray 伽马射线

Radioactivity 放射性

Differentiation 区别

Lithology 岩石学

Neutron 中子

Transit 传输

Receiver 接收器

Seismic 地震的

Calibration 校准

Current 电流

Voltage 电压


---

## Slide 13

| Elapsed 
Time(hr) | Comments |
| --- | --- |
| 4.00 | Lay down logging tool string #3.
- Lay down tool string #3: VSI-4.
- Rig down logging equipment and lay down to the cantilever. |
| 3.00 | Rig up 18-5/8" casing running equipment.
- Held PJSM with all personnel involved in rigging up casing running equipment.
- Remove BX elevators and drilling bails.
- Rig up TRS casing equipment. 
- Install 22" diverter packer.
- Pick up final landing joint and make up casing circulating crossover and lay back down to the cantilever. |
| 4.00 | Run 18-5/8" surface casing.
- Pick up 18-5/8" float shoe and float collar and attempt to make-up.
- Observed connection was cross threaded, backed out the joint, cleaned and inspected threads.
- Made up float collar joint on second attempt with no issues.
- Tested float collar and float shoe.
- Good test. |

---

## Slide 14

| Elapsed 
Time(hr) | Comments |
| --- | --- |
| 3.50 | Run 18-5/8" surface casing.
- Run 18-5/8" surface casing as per final tally.
- 1 x Float Shoe joint (bakerlok) 2 x cent on stop collars.
- 1 x Float Collar joint (bakerlok) 2 x cent on stop collars.
- 1 x T/L joint (bakerlok) - 1 centralizer on stop collar.
- 13 x R3 joints - 1 centralizer on collar. |
| 1.00 | Repair jam unit communication cord.
- When making up casing connection, jam unit communication cord got caught and pulled end out. 
- Attempted to use back-up cord, found it was defective.
- Sent cord to electrician to get fixed. |

---

## Slide 15

### Casing Tally

---

## Slide 16

| Outside Diameter 外径 | wall thickness 壁厚 |
| --- | --- |
| Grade 钢级 | Geometry 几何尺寸 |
| Nominal 公称的 | Drift 通径 |
| Plain End Weight 光管单重 | OD Tolerance 外径公差 |
| Performance 性能 | Yield Strength 屈服强度 |
| Internal Yield Pressure 抗内压 | SMYS 名义最小屈服强度 |
| Collapse Pressure 抗外压 | Specified Minimum Yield Strength |

---

## Slide 17

| Make-up Loss 上扣损失 | Threads per inch每英寸牙数 | Connection OD option接头外径选项 | Regular 普通的 |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Tension Efficiency 拉伸效率 | Joint Yield Strength 接头屈服（连接）强度 | Internal Pressure Capacity 抗内压 | External Pressure Capacity 抗外压 |
| Compression Strength 抗压强度 | Allowable Bending 允许弯度 | Coupling Face Load 最大允许负载 | coupling 接箍 |

接头参数

---

## Slide 18

| Make-up Torque 上扣扭矩 | Minimum 最小 | Optimum 最佳 | Maximum 最大 |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Shoulder Torque 台肩扭矩 | Operation Limit Torque作业极限扭矩 | Yield Torque 屈服扭矩 | Interchangeable 
可互换 |

---

## Slide 19

Connection Make-up Graph

---

## Slide 20

| Elapsed
Time (hr) | Comments |
| --- | --- |
| 0.50 | Safety stand down.
- Stop the job and review incident.
- Review process and retrain crew on how to latch side door elevators.
- Discuss why and how to prevent any exposure to the hazards.
- Identify and discuss pinch points. |
| 6.75 | Run 18-5/8" surface casing.
- Ran 18-5/8" surface casing as per final tally:
- 1 x Float Shoe joint (bakerlok) 2 x cent on stop collars.
- 1 x Float Collar joint (bakerlok) 2 x cent on stop collars.
- 1 x T/L joint (bakerlok) - 1 centralizer on stop collar.
- 44 x R3 joints - 1 centralizer on stop collar
- 2 x pup joints 6m, 3m.
- 1 x R3 landing joint.
- Ran in hole with no issues to setting depth 697m.
- Fill each joint with sea water on the fly. |
| 2.75 | Rig up cement head and circulate 18-5/8" surface casing.
- Hold PJSM with all personnel involved.
- Make up cement head on casing stump.
- Install 2 x cementing lines.
- Circulate 2 x bottoms up with seawater |

---

## Slide 21

| Elapsed
Time (hr) | Comments |
| --- | --- |
| 0.75 | Pressure test surface equipment for 18-5/8" cement job.
- Pump 3m3 of drill water with cement unit and pressure test lines.
- 2Mpa / 21MPa for 5 / 5 min.
- Troubleshoot issues with cement unit.
- Isolated leaking valve and achieved good test. |
| 5.5 | Pump primary cement job on 18-5/8" surface casing.
- Drop bottom wiper plug and begin cement job.
- Mix and pump 90m3 of 1.45SG Class G lead cement.
- Mix and pump 30m3 of 1.89SG Class G tail cement.
- Drop top displacement plug.
- Displace cement with seawater
- Observe plug bump after 95m3 total displacement.
- 1.5m3 early from calculated value.
- Cement in place @ 9:00 hrs.
- Pressured up 3.5Mpa over FCP of 3.2Mpa.
- Held pressure 5 min and bled off to check floats - floats held.
- Volume bled back 0.5m3.
* Intermittent returns observed throughout job.
* Ceased filling 30" x 18-5/8" annulus after cement in place. |

---

## Slide 22

| Elapsed
Time (hr) | Comments |
| --- | --- |
| 1.00 | Pressure test 18-5/8" surface casing.
- Pressure up 18-5/8" casing to 11.5Mpa.
- Hold test for 15 min.
- Observed 0 psi leak off.
- Volume pumped 0.9m3, volume bled back 0.9m3.
- Concurrently hold PJSM with personnel involved in rigging down cement lines. |
| 9.50 | Wait on cement.
- Rig down cement lines.
- Prepare for casing cutting operations in moon pool area.
- Attach slings to 30" riser mandrel, and connect on BOP handler.
- Prepare for rigging down the diverter.
- Organize equipment to rig up 20-3/4" BOP while waiting on cement.
- Concurrently build 17-1/2" hole section drilling mud.
- Service top drive and rig floor equipment. |
| 0.50 | Slack off 18-5/8" casing.
- Slack of 18-5/8" casing and monitor for slump.
- Casing string held static. |
| 1.75 | Rough cut 18-5/8" casing.
- Hold PJSM with all personnel involved.
- Rough cut hole in casing and allow to drain.
- Make rough cut 30" above 30" conductor pin. |

---

## Slide 23

| Elapsed
Time (hr) | Comments |
| --- | --- |
| 4.00 | Lay down 18-5/8" landing string.
- Break and lay down 18-5/8" landing string and cut off. |
| 1.50 | Rig down casing handling equipment.
- Rig down and remove casing side door elevators.
- Rig down casing bails and rig up drilling bails & elevators.
- Transfer casing handling equipment from rig floor. |
| 7.25 | Pull diverter, overshot and 30" riser joint.
- Install diverter pulling tool.
- Nipple down diverter and hoist diverter/overshot assembly.
- Disconnect and rack diverter housing.
- Lay down overshot.
- Lay down 30" mandrel/riser assembly.
- Connect BOP slings from TDX to 30" mandrel/riser.
- Hoist through rotary table.
- Break and lay down mandrel/riser assembly. |
| 5.00 | Make final cut on 18-5/8” casing.
- Hold PJSM with crew, review JSA.
- Rig up cold cutter on 18-5/8” casing.
- Make final cut 17-15/16" above 30" conductor pin.
- Cut 15° 3/8" bevel on casing cut.
- Dress bevel as required. |

---

## Slide 24

| Elapsed
Time (hr) | Comments |
| --- | --- |
| 3.00 | Install 20" Wellhead A-Section.
- Install 20" A-Section on casing stump, landing on 30“ conductor pin.
- Pressure test between seals through test port, 3.5MPa / 15 min.
- Good test.
- Torque lockdown screws to 1000 N-m.
- Pull test casing head to 5 kdaN.
- Good test.
- Remove lifting tool. |
|  |  |
|  |  |
|  |  |

30“ conductor

Wellhead A-section

18-5/8” casing

---
