## Slide 1

钻井英语日报详解DDR of QH-1

第四讲

---

## Slide 2

| Elapsed
Time (hr) | Comments |
| --- | --- |
| 1.00 | Pressure test 18-5/8" surface casing.
- Pressure up 18-5/8" casing to 11.5Mpa.
- Hold test for 15 min.
- Observed 0 psi leak off.
- Volume pumped 0.9m3, volume bled back 0.9m3.
- Concurrently hold PJSM with personnel involved in rigging down cement lines. |
| 9.50 | Wait on cement.
- Rig down cement lines.
- Prepare for casing cutting operations in moon pool area.
- Attach slings to 30" riser mandrel, and connect on BOP handler.
- Prepare for rigging down the diverter.
- Organize equipment to rig up 20-3/4" BOP while waiting on cement.
- Concurrently build 17-1/2" hole section drilling mud.
- Service top drive and rig floor equipment. |
| 0.50 | Slack off 18-5/8" casing.
- Slack of 18-5/8" casing and monitor for slump.
- Casing string held static. |
| 1.75 | Rough cut 18-5/8" casing.
- Hold PJSM with all personnel involved.
- Rough cut hole in casing and allow to drain.
- Make rough cut 30" above 30" conductor pin. |

---

## Slide 3

| Elapsed
Time (hr) | Comments |
| --- | --- |
| 4.00 | Lay down 18-5/8" landing string.
- Break and lay down 18-5/8" landing string and cut off. |
| 1.50 | Rig down casing handling equipment.
- Rig down and remove casing side door elevators.
- Rig down casing bails and rig up drilling bails & elevators.
- Transfer casing handling equipment from rig floor. |
| 7.25 | Pull diverter, overshot and 30" riser joint.
- Install diverter pulling tool.
- Nipple down diverter and hoist diverter/overshot assembly.
- Disconnect and rack diverter housing.
- Lay down overshot.
- Lay down 30" mandrel/riser assembly.
- Connect BOP slings from TDX to 30" mandrel/riser.
- Hoist through rotary table.
- Break and lay down mandrel/riser assembly. |
| 5.00 | Make final cut on 18-5/8” casing.
- Hold PJSM with crew, review JSA.
- Rig up cold cutter on 18-5/8” casing.
- Make final cut 17-15/16" above 30" conductor pin.
- Cut 15° 3/8" bevel on casing cut.
- Dress bevel as required. |

---

## Slide 4

本单元的词汇表

| test plug 试压塞 | visually 视觉地 | drilling adapter 
钻井转换头 | crane 吊车 |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| spool 四通 | bolt 螺栓 | choke line 节流管线 | kill line 压井管线 |
| secondary retention
二重防坠保护 | washpipe 冲管 | IBOP 内防喷 | standpipe 立管 |
| energize 激活 | koomey unit 远控台 | annular preventer
环形防喷器 | stack 堆栈 |
| TOFS time out for safety
安全暂停 | working at height
高空作业 | tie off 打结 | fitting 配件 |
| side entry sub 旁通短节 | shell test 壳体试压 | OIM  海上平台经理
offshore installation manager |  |
| console 操纵台 | draw down test
压降测试 | combination tool
联合两用工具 | grabber arm 抓臂 |
| hydra racker 液压排管器 | actuator 促动器 | clamp 夹钳 | maintenance 保养 |
| wear bushing 防磨套 | remaining 剩余的 | jaw 钳牙 | PDC bit 金刚石钻头 |

---

## Slide 5

Nipple up 20-3/4” BOP

---

## Slide 6

Annular 环形防喷器

Ram BOP 闸板防喷器

Mud cross 四通

Flange 法兰

Gasket 钢圈

SS Stainless Steel 不锈钢

Stud 双头螺栓

Bolt 螺栓

Nut 螺母

Wrench 扳手

Coflex 一种防火软管

HCR 液动阀


---

## Slide 7

Coflex Hose

---

## Slide 8

锚定螺栓

车架螺栓

环首螺栓

吊挂螺栓

六角螺栓

方头螺栓

U型螺栓

方头螺栓

---

## Slide 9

| Packing Unit | 密封单元 |
| --- | --- |
| Packer | 内胶芯 |
| Donut | 外胶芯 |
| Acess Flaps | 接口盖 |
| Locking Grooves | 锁槽 |
| Pusher Plate | 推盘 |
| Opening/Close Hydraulic Port | 打开/关闭液压口 |
| Vent | 排气孔 |
| Piston | 活塞 |

组合胶芯环形防喷器

Cameron Type D

---

## Slide 10

| Ram 闸板 |
| --- |
| Seal carrier 密封载体 |
| Locking Screw 锁紧螺丝 |
| Bonnet 阀盖/腔盖 |
| Lifting Eye 吊眼/吊耳 |
| Intermediate Flange 中间法兰 |
| Cylinder |
| Operating Piston 控制活塞 |
| Weep hole 泪孔 |

---

## Slide 11

| 4-Way Valve 四通阀 |
| --- |
| Manifold 管汇 |
| Accumulator 储能器 |
| Bypass 旁通阀 |
| Lifting Eye 吊眼/吊耳 |
| Check Valve 单向阀 |
| Koomey Unit 远控台 |
| Regulator 调压阀 |
| Electrical Pump 电泵 |
| Pneumatic Pump 气泵 |
| Normally closed 常闭 |

---

## Slide 12

| Buffer Tank 缓冲箱 |
| --- |
| Actuate 驱动 |
| Hydraulic 液压的 |
| Manual 手动的 |
| Transmitter 传输器 |
| Pressure Gauge 压力表 |
| Choke Manifold 节流管汇 |
| Cross 四通 |
| Wash out 冲蚀 |

---

## Slide 13

| Drill pipe pressure gauge 钻杆压力表 |
| --- |
| Casing Pressure gauge 套压表 |
| Pump stock/rate meter 泵冲/速计数器 |
| Air supply valve 气源阀 |
| Control valve 控制阀 |
| Hydraulic fluid reservior 液压油箱 |
| Choke position indicator节流阀位置指示表 |
| Hydraulic regulator 液压调节阀 |
| Hydraulic pump 液压泵 |
| Hand pump 手动泵 |

---

## Slide 14

| Elapsed
Time (hr) | Comments |
| --- | --- |
| 5.00 | Install 20" BOP test plug assembly.
- Make up BOP test plug assembly.
- Land test plug in the wellhead and visually confirm land out. |
| 4.00 | Install drilling adapter.
- Rig up 20m slings to the top drive and prepare to pick up drilling adapter.
- Land and torque drilling adapter on the wellhead.
- Remove slings and rig down landing equipment.
- Install master bushings in the rotary table. |
| 7.00 | Rig up 20-3/4" BOP on the wellhead.
- Traverse BOP towards well center and pick up with BOP handler crane off the test stump.
- Land BOP on drilling spool and install BOP bolts.
- Torque BOP bolts to 8000 N-m. |

---

## Slide 15

第五讲钻17.5“井段与旋转导向系统

---

## Slide 16

| Elapsed
Time (hr) | Comments |
| --- | --- |
| 7.00 | Install choke and kill lines, and install BOP control lines.
- Rig in 10K choke and kill lines.
- Secure lines with secondary retention.
- Install BOP control lines.
Concurrent operations:
- Install washpipe on the top drive.
- Rig in 2" cement line to the top drive and pressure test.
- Pressure test:
- Lower IBOP: 2.5MPa/21 Mpa psi, 5/5min.
- Upper IBOP: 2.5MPa/21 Mpa, 5/5min.
- Standpipe: 2.5MPa/21 Mpa, 5/5min.
- Washpipe: 2.5MPa/21 Mpa, 5/5min.
- Good tests. |
| 1.00 | Energize Koomey Unit.
- Energize BOP control system and prepare to function test.
- Prepare to pressure test BOP with cement unit. |
|  | Rig up riser mandrel, overshot packer, diverter.
- Install riser mandrel and torque on annular preventer （见前页图）.
- Rig up overshot to diverter, run in and set diverter.
- Pressure up on diverter system, fill up stack and visually check for leaks.
- No leaks observed.
- Clean and clear rig floor and moon pool area after rigging up.
- Held TOFS with crew regarding working at heights. Reviewed proper tie off points |

---

## Slide 17

| Elapsed
Time (hr) | Comments |
| --- | --- |
| 2.00 | Fix hydraulic leaks on control lines.
- 3 hydraulic control hose connection leaks. Fittings leaking on the BOP.
- Fitting removed and Teflon was put on the connections.
- Train crews on rig tong operations, manual handling, pinch points & hand placement. |
| 2.50 | Make up test plug assembly crossover and latch onto test plug.
- Hold PJSM with all personnel involved in rigging up test assembly.
- Trip in the hole and make up to the test assembly.
- Make up surface lines to side entry sub.
- Make up top drive and flush through surface lines. |
| 4.00 | Pressure test & function test 20-3/4" BOP.
- Perform line test to 2.5 MPa/21 MPa for 5/5 min.
- Shell test 20-3/4" BOP to 2.5 MPa/21 MPa for 5/5 min.
- Function Test 20-3/4" BOP from Driller & OIM console.
- Perform accumulator draw down test.
- Good test. |
| 1.00 | Trip out with 20" combination tool assembly.
- Hold PJSM with all personnel involved in rigging down test assembly.
- Rig down surface lines, break out top drive and side entry sub.
- Unable to close upper grabber arm on the hydra-racker. |

---

## Slide 18

| Elapsed
Time (hr) | Comments |
| --- | --- |
| 3.00 | Troubleshoot and repair hydraracker.
- Upper arm gripper jaw actuator not sending pressure to the clamp function.
- Unable to handle stands and continue to trip out the test assembly.
- Trouble shoot with maintenance crews.
- Remove actuator and repair.
- Re-install hydraulic actuator valve. |
| 1.00 | Trip out with 20" combination tool assembly.
- Continue to trip out combination tool and break out.
- Flip combo tool and install on stand.
- Make up 20" wear bushing, and land in the wellhead.
- Tighten lock down dogs in the A-section to secure the wear bushing.
- Trip out landing assembly and rack back in the derrick.
- Trip out remaning stands.
- Clear and clean rig floor, prepare to pick up BHA. |
|  |  |
|  |  |

---
