## Slide 1

钻井英语日报详解DDR of QH-1

第五讲

---

## Slide 2

本单元的词汇表

| nozzle 水眼 | TFA total flow area
总流动面积 | SN serial number
序列号 | stabilizer 稳定器 |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| pony 短节 | OD outside diameter
外径 | ID inside diameter
内径 | dart
泵送胶塞 |
| jar 震击器 | shallow test 
仪器的浅测试 | trip drill 
起下钻井控演习 | pit drill 
钻进井控演习 |
| mud logger 录井 | after action review
复盘分析 | power choke drill
节流阀演习 | manifold
管汇 |
| mousehole 鼠洞 | cutting 岩屑 | leak off test
地漏试验 | parameter
参数 |
| ISIP Instaneous Shut In Pressure
瞬时关闭压力 |  | EMW equivalent mud weight
当量泥浆密度 |  |
| background gas
背景气 | stage up 阶段向上 | encounter 遇到 | overpull 过提 |
| trigger 触发 | fault 错误 | technician 技术员 | AC alternating current
交流电 |
| encoder 编码器 | SCR slow circulating rate
低泵冲试验 | shaker 振动筛 | backream 倒划眼 |

---

## Slide 3

本单元的词汇表

| multiple 许多的 | gravity 重力 | secure 保全 | RSS rotary steerable system 旋转导向 |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| DD directional driller
定向司钻 | ball 泥包 | split 分开 | O-ring O型圈 |
|  |  |  |  |
|  |  |  |  |
|  |  |  |  |
|  |  |  |  |
|  |  |  |  |
|  |  |  |  |
|  |  |  |  |

---

## Slide 4

Drill 17.5” Hole

---

## Slide 5

| Elapsed
Time (hr) | Comments |
| --- | --- |
| 9.25 | Make up 17-1/2" RSS BHA.
- 17-1/2" PDC bit. 6 x14, 4 x13 nozzles,TFA 1.420, SN: A989823.
- PD 900 Orbit c/w (couple with) 17-1/2" Stabilizer.
- Clink 900.
- TruLink 900.
- OptiDrill 900.
- Crossover
- 9-1/2" Pony NMDC.
- 17-1/2" Roller Reamer.
- CircSub catcher.
- CircSub Valve.
- HyPR 50b 2.8" OD dart/seat ID 2.757".
- 8 x 9-1/2" Spiral Drill Collars.
- 9-1/2" Hydra Jar.
- 3 x 9-1/2" Spiral Drill Collars.
- 9-1/2" Accelerator.
- Crossover 
- 12 x singles 6-5/8" spiral heavyweight drill pipe. |
| 3.00 | Trip in the hole with 5-1/2" drill pipe.
- Perform shallow test on directional tools at 450m.
- Good test. |

---

## Slide 6

RSS - Rotary Steerable Assembly

### 推靠式

- BH AutoTrak

- BH Lucida

- SLB PowerDrive X6

- SLB PowerDrive Orbit

- SLB PowerDrive Orbit G2

- HLB iCruise

- Weatherford Revolution

### 指向式

- SLB Xcel/Xceed

- HLB GeoPilot

- Weatherford Magnus

### 混合式

- SLB Archer

---

## Slide 7

---

## Slide 8

static 静态的

dynamic 动态的

friction 摩擦力

thrust 推挤

bias 偏转

extrapolation 外置

spiral 螺旋的

mandrel 芯轴

protrusion 突出

---

## Slide 9

PowerDrive Orbit

Push the bit

Vortex (motorized RSS)

metal to metal seal

near bit azimuthal gamma ray

near bit directional sensors

continuous circulation downlink

---

## Slide 10


---

## Slide 11

| Elapsed
Time (hr) | Comments |
| --- | --- |
| 0.50 | Perform trip drills and pit drills.
- Perform pit drill with mud loggers.
- Perform trip drill with crew at xxx m.
- FOSV installed in 64 sec.
- After action review with crews. |
| 1.75 | Trip in the hole with 5-1/2" drill pipe.
- Trip in with 5-1/2" DP from xxx to xxx.
- Connect topdrive, establish circulation.
- Wash down and tag cement at xxxx. |
| 1.5 | Perform Power Choke drill with crews.
- Hold PJSM with drill crew.
- Inspect choke & kill manifold line ups.
- Line up valves & verify flow path.
- Close annular and circulate through the choke.
- Perform Power Choke drill through choke and kill lines.
- Set choke/kill opening/closing speed.
- Install mousehole. |

---

## Slide 12

| Elapsed
Time (hr) | Comments |
| --- | --- |
| 6.50 | Drill out shoe track and 5m of new formation.
- Displace well to 1.12SG NaCl mud while drilling out shoe joint.
- Circulate 2 bottoms up and analyze cuttings.
- Confirm 100% new formation with Geo Team. |
| 2.5 | Perform Leak Off Test (LOT).
- Position bit at 3m above casing shoe and rack back 1x stand of 5-1/2" DP.
- Make up side entry assembly to drill string, and connect surface lines.
- Pressure test surface lines to 2MPa/10MPa for 5/5 min.
- Conduct LOT with cement unit.
- Max press: xx MPa.
- ISIP (10 sec): xx MPa.
- Volume pumped: 0.4 m3.
- Volume returned: 0.25 m3.
- EMW: 2.xx SG.
- Rig down surface lines, and side entry sub assembly. |
| 12.00 | Drill 17-1/2" hole section from xxx m to xxxx m.
Drilling Parameters:
- ROP: xx – xxx mph - Flow: xxxx lpm. - SPP: xx MPa.
- SWOB: xxx kdaN - DWOB: xxx kdaN  - Rotary: xxx  rpm.
- STorque: xx kN-m. - DTorque: xx kN-m.
- MW: 1.12 SG. - ECD: 1.17 SG. - Background Gas: x %.
- PU/SO/FRW: ?/?/? kdaN. - Off-bottom torque: xx kN-m.
- No loss rate observed. |

---

## Slide 13

Pump 1 or 2 more point after observing the leak-off


ISIP (Initial Shut In Pressure)


Pressure drop <50psi (0.34MPa)

Friction in annulus


Minimum Stress

| Volume
(bbl) | Pressure
(psi) | ∆P
(psi) |
| --- | --- | --- |
| 0.2 | 100 |  |
| 0.4 | 200 | 100 |
| 0.6 | 290 | 90 |
| 0.8 | 390 | 100 |
| 1.0 | 440 | 50 |

---

## Slide 14

| Elapsed
Time (hr) | Comments |
| --- | --- |
| 1.50 | Troubleshoot top drive.
- Top drive unable to maintain required RPM.
- Rotary stopping at 40-60 rpm while staging up to 160 rpm. |
| 5.00 | Trip out of the hole to the 18-5/8" casing shoe and troubleshoot top drive.
- Encounter tight spot at xxx m.
- Observed 25 kdaN overpull after staged attempts.
- Connect topdrive and wash out of the well to xxx m.
- No overpull observed while pumping.
- Rack back stand and trip out to xxx m.
- Perform rotating tests, to trigger equipment faults.
- E-Hawk technician remotely logged into the system to assist with troubleshooting.
- Test topdrive encoders.
- Observe encoder damage on the topdrive AC drive motor. (DC 直流）
- Repair encoder and function test.
- Successful function test and system checks.
- Well monitored on the trip tank.
- Proper displacement observed. |
| 1.25 | Trip in from xxx m to xxx m.
- Trip in the hole from xxx m to xxx m .
- Make up topdrive and wash in the last stand. |

---

## Slide 15

| Elapsed
Time (hr) | Comments |
| --- | --- |
| 4.25 | Drill 17-1/2" hole section from xxx m to xxx m.
- No loss rate observed.
- Record SCR's at xxx m with 1.12 SG mud weight.
- MP1: 20 stks/xx MPa psi, 30 stks/xx MPa, 40 stks/xx MPa.
- MP2: 20 stks/xx MPa, 30 stks/xx MPa, 40 stks/xx MPa.
- MP3: 20 stks/xx MPa, 30 stks/xx MPa, 40 stks/xx MPa. |
| xx | Drill 17-1/2" hole section from xxxx m to section TD at 1500 m.
- No loss rate observed. |
| 2.50 | Circulate well clean and condition mud.
- Circulate 1 x bottoms up well while reciprocating from xxxx m to xxxx m (1 stand).
- Rack back 1 stand and circulate 1.5 x bottoms up while reciprocating from xxxx to xxxx.
- Observe decrease in cuttings return at the shakers.
- Observe ECD reduction from 1.16 SG ppg to 1.14 SG.
- Perform 15 min flow check.
- Well static. |
| 2.50 | Backream with 17-1/2" RSS drilling assembly.
- Trip out of hole from xxxx to xxxx with 5-1/2" DP on elevators.
- Observe multiple tight spots, wipe up/down as required.
- Back ream intervals: xxxx - xxxx. |

---

## Slide 16



### Solid Control Equipment

沉沙罐

振动筛

回流管线

除气器

泥浆清洗器

混料漏斗

离心机

---

## Slide 17

| Elapsed
Time (hr) | Comments |
| --- | --- |
| 7.00 | Flowline seal failure.
- Observe decrease in pressure at flowline.
- Observe mud leaking past flowline seal.
- Remove master bushings and confirm seal failure.
- Fill hole with trip tank every stand.
- Visually monitor well through rotary.
- Rig up gravity feed line to A-section.
- Continue to backream out of hole from xxxx to xxxx. |
| 5.00 | Trip out on the elevators from xxxx to xxx.
- Trip out and monitor well on gravity feed line.
- Trip drill held with rig crew. Well secure in 111 seconds.
- Conduct 15 min flowcheck at 18-5/8” shoe.
- Well static. |
| 9.00 | Trip out of hole with 17-1/2" RSS drilling assembly.
- Trip out of hole from xxx to surface.
- Rack back 6-5/8" HWDP, 9-1/2" DC.
- Break 17-1/2" drilling BHA as per DD from xxx to surface.
- Lay down components as required.
- No excess wear observed on any BHA components.
- Observed excess cuttings balled up on bit and RSS pads.
- 17-1/2" bit grade - 1-1-BT-S-X-0-BU-TD.
- Clean and clear rig floor post tripping operations.
- Conduct 15 min flow check with BHA at BOP.  0.2 m3/hr losses. |

---

## Slide 18

| Elapsed
Time (hr) | Comments |
| --- | --- |
| 5.00 | Repair flowline seal on diverter.
- Hold PJSM with all personnel prior working on diverter.
- Pull diverter and inspect flowline seals.
- Split diverter and remove lower flowline seal.
- Observe internal damage.
- Observe mud seal O-ring damage.
- Remove flowline seal and observe rolled edge, indicating cause of failure.
- Replace flowline seal and re-install diverter top section.
- Torque diverter top section and re-install in the diverter housing.
- Pressure up overshot packer and flowline seals.
- Circulate trip tanks over the well and observe no leaks from the diverter housing. |

---
