## Slide 1

钻井英语日报详解DDR of QH-1

第六讲

---

## Slide 2

Differential sticking and free pipe压差卡钻与解卡

---

## Slide 3

本单元的词汇表

| stuck pipe 卡钻 | kelly 方钻杆 | engage 衔接 | unsuccessful 不成功 |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| fire the jar 激发震击器 | sequence 顺序 | distribute 分配 | neutral 中和 |
| idle 空转 | Drops inspection 落物检查 | instruction 指令 | acid 酸 |
| soak 浸泡 | desalinated 去盐分的 | driller’s method
司钻法 | divert 分流 |
| contaminate 污染 | contingency 应急的 | bin 大容器 | return 返出 |
| active system 活动罐 | hard shut-in 硬关井 | FRW free rotating weight
自由旋转重量 |  |
| spike 尖峰 | slug 重泥浆塞 | offline 离线的 | regain 重新获得 |
| SICP shut in casing pressure 
关井套压 |  | SIDPP shut in drill pipe pressure
关井立压 |  |
| line up 接上管线 | differential sticking 压差卡钻 | foot 英尺 | pound 磅 |

---

## Slide 4

| Comments |
| --- |
| Stuck pipe.
- Rotation was stopped to perform directional survey on kelly down at  4,326' with full circulation.
- Attempt to engage rotation to work the string prior to making connection with unsuccessful rotary.
- Attempt to pick up on the drill string and observed overpull  of 40 k-lbs.

Parameters as follows prior to stuck pipe:
- Pick up weight 202 k-lbs.
- Slack off weight 125 k-lbs.
- Rotating weight 161 k-lbs.
- Mud weight in 11.2 ppg.
- Mud weight out 11.5 ppg.
- While attempting to free pipe, observe full circulation with pump rate of 1,100 gpm.
- Attempt to fire the jars, unsuccessful.
- Decision to lower mud weight to 10.8 ppg. |

---

## Slide 5

Total score

(2,4,2)





---

## Slide 6

Total score

(7,0,6)





---

## Slide 7

Total score

(2,2,8)





---

## Slide 8

| Comments |
| --- |
| -  Make up 1 single of 5.5" drill pipe.
- Pump at 806 gpm.
- Max torque on 5.5" HWDP = 41,600 ft-lbs
- In sequences of adding torque to the drill string of 50%, 70%, 80%, 90%, 100% attempting to distribute torque down hole.
- On each attempt, slacked off to 70 k-lbs and picking back up to neutral weight of 161 k-lbs.
- Unsuccessful attempts down.
- Pick up to 210 k-lbs with max torque, unsuccessful.
- Go back down, release torque.
- Attempt in sequence of up weight with no torque in string of 210, 435, 521, 560 and 604 k-lbs. 
  No success.
- Mud weight observed at 10.7 ppg in, 11.1 ppg out.
- In sequence add 50% & 70% torque to string.
- Pick up to 404, 446,481 & 508 k-lbs.
- No success.
- Idle pumps down to 350 gpm.
- Full returns. |

---

## Slide 9

---

## Slide 10



---

## Slide 11

| Comments |
| --- |
| Perform Drops inspection and rig service.
- Perform derrick and topdrive drops inspection.
- Greased topdrive, traveling blocks and crown sheaves. |
| Continue attempting to free pipe.
- Circulate at 350 gpm/ 260 psi.
- Work drill string as per instructions. |
| Make up FOSVs, SES and cement lines.
- Shut down rig pumps.
- Break connection to TDS.
- Make up Acid pumping equipment:
- Topdrive
- 1 x FOSV.
- 1 SES.
- 1 x FOSV.
- Connect to drill string.
- Rig in cement lines to SES.
Offline:
- Pressure test cement lines and equipment.
- 300/ 5,000 psi 5min each.
- Good test. |

---

## Slide 12

| Comments |
| --- |
| Continue attempting to free pipe.
- Circulate at 350 gpm/ 260 psi.
- Work drill string as per instructions. 
Offline:
- Continue to rig up Acid soak equipment. |
| Rig up Acid soak equipment.
- Continue circulating drill string.
- 300 gpm/ 180 psi.
- Continue to rig up Acid soak equipment.
- Mix 28% HCL Acid pill. |
| Pump 28% HCL Acid soak pill.
- Prepare Acid soak equipment.
- Prepare and mix 50 bbls of 28% HCL Acid.
- Hold pre-job safety meeting.
- Pump 5 bbls of high vis Desal water.
- Pump 50 bbls of 28% HCL Acid pill.
- Displace cement lines with 5 bbls of High vis Desal water.
- Switch to rig pumps.
- Displace with 78 bbls of mud leaving 5 bbls of Acid in the drill string.
- Rig down SES assembly.
- Make up topdrive.
- Prepare to free pipe as procedure |

---

## Slide 13

| Comments |
| --- |
| Attempt to free stuck pipe.
- Bring drill string down to 75 k-lbs.
- As procedure, attempt to fire jars.
- Pick up drill string and go back down to 74 k-lbs after each attempt as follows:
 Pick up to 545, 612, 628, 631, 638 and 632 klbs.
- Jars did not fire.
- Bring drill string back to neutral 161 k-ft/lbs |
| Prepare to displace out 28% HCL Acid pill.
- Add 40 k-ft/lbs torque to drill string.
- Pick up drill string to 450 k-lbs and hold (250 k-lbs overpull).
- Bring mud pumps online to 1,000 gpm.
- Observed flow increase after 289 bbls pumped.
- Shut down pumps, close upper pipe rams, open HCR to fully closed choke manifold,
 - well shut in and secure.
- Circulate trip tank over ram preventer.
- Pressures observed on shut in:
- SICP = 47 psi.
- SIDPP = 0 psi. |

---

## Slide 14

| Comments |
| --- |
| Circulate out kick using Drillers Method step #1.
- Mud weight 10.9 ppg.
- Open choke, initiate flow.
- Gradually bring pumps up to reduced rate to 30 spm.
- After 50 bbls pumped, choke fully open,
 CP = 153 psi, SPP = 35 psi.
- Observed max CP to 174 psi, SPP to 38 psi after 58 bbls bumped.
- Observed the HCL Acid pill at the shaker box after 72 bbls pumped. 
-  Divert contaminated Acid/mud  to contingency bin.
- Continue to circulate through choke manifold.
- Observe after 130 bbls pumped, pressures as follows:
- CP = 34 psi/ SPP = 40 psi. |

---

## Slide 15



---

## Slide 16

| Comments |
| --- |
| - Observe after 139 bbls pumped, pressures as follows.
- CP = 0 psi/ SPP = 51 psi.
- Observed no returns.
- Observed after 155 bbls pumped, regained full returns.
- CP = 32 psi/ SPP = 144 psi.
- After 204 bbls pumped, divert returns back to active system.
- After 500 bbls pumped CP = 56 psi/ SPP = 286 psi.
- Mud weight 10.8 ppg.
- Stop mud pump, close choke. Well shut in and secure.
- Monitor pressures with CP = 0 psi/ SIDPP = 0 psi.
- Line up on trip tank, open choke.
- Perform flow check 15 min.
- Observe no flow. |

---

## Slide 17

| Comments |
| --- |
| Attempt to free stuck pipe.
- Open upper rams.
- Line up for hard shut-in.
- Visual check rams on BOP to confirm open.
- Confirm lined up on trip tanks.
- Release torque on drill pipe, observe no torque.
- Drill string at 187 k-lbs.
- Pick up drill string to 366 k-lbs.
- Observe drill string break free.
- Work string with parameters as follows:
- 30 rpm/ 12 k-ft/lbs Tq.
- 165 k-lbs FRW.
- 1,100 gpm/ 2,800 psi. |
| Circulate and condition mud.
- Circulate and displace well with new  10.8 ppg mud.
- Reciprocate drill string.
- 1,100 gpm/ 2,800 psi.
- 40 rpm/ 12-15 k-ft/lbs Tq.
- 163 k-lbs FRW. |

---

## Slide 18

| Comments |
| --- |
| Perform flow check.
- Perform flow check 15 min.
- Well static. |
| Backream out of hole from 4,326' to 3,830'.
- Backream out of hole from 4,326' to 3,979'.
- Ream and work each stand.
- 1,100 gpm/ 2,800 psi.
- 40 rpm/ 7-14 k-ft/lbs Tq.
- Pump out of hole from 3,979' to 3,789'.
- 1,100 gpm/ 2,780 psi.
- No rotation.
- Observed tight spot at 3,805' and 3,740'.
- 30 k-lbs overpull.
- Worked through tight spots.
- 1,100 gpm/ 2,800 psi.
- 60 rpm/ 15-21 k-ft/lbs Tq.
- Observe pressure spike to 3,000 psi and torque increase to to 30 k-ft/lbs.
- Indication of pack-off.
- Picked up 1 stand and reamed back down to 3,830'. |

---

## Slide 19

| Comments |
| --- |
| Pump 50 bbl Hi-vis sweep and circulate 2 bottoms up.
- Pump 50 bbl Hi-vis sweep and circulate 2 bottoms up.
- 1,100 gpm/ 2,880 psi.
- 100 rpm/ 10-15 ft-lbs Tq |
| Backream out of hole from 3,830' to 2,380'.
- Backream out of hole from 3,830' to 2,380'.
- 600 gpm/ 1,050 psi.
- 40 rpm/ 10-17 ft-lbs Tq.
- Observe tight spots at 3,730', 2,475'.
- Work through tight spots.
- Continue to backream to 18-5/8" casing shoe.
- Perform flow check.
- Pump slug.
- Straight pull on elevators to 17-1/2” BHA. |

---
