## Slide 1

钻井英语日报详解DDR of QH-1

第八讲

---

## Slide 2

本单元的词汇表

| accessory 附件 | calibration 校准 | acquire 获取 | repeat 重复 |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| deploy 部署 | seismic 地震的 | correlation 相关性 | presentation 展示 |
| normalization 规范化 | error 错误 | culture 文化 | statistics 统计数据 |
| permit 许可 | isolate 隔离 | verification 验证 | mitigate 减轻 |
| TRIC Toolbox Risk Identification Card
工具箱风险识别卡 |  | task 任务 | peer 同僚 |
| rush 匆忙的做 | utilize 使用 | authority 授权 | look out 小心 |
| grease 润滑脂 | dolly 滑动台架 | track 导轨 | hydraulic 液压的 |
| profile 轮廓 | panel 面板 | RMS rotary mounted slips
安装在转盘内的卡瓦 |  |
| power tong 液压大钳 | swedge 循环变扣 | TIW Texas Iron Works
旋塞安全阀 |  |

---

## Slide 3

本单元的词汇表

| red zone 落物高风险区 | substandard 不合格的 | graph 图表 | shoulder 台阶面 |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| spider elevator 卡瓦式吊卡 | break circulation 建立循环 | catwalk 猫道 | skate 滑动板 |
| investigate 调查 | assessment 评估 | single 单根 | double 双根 |
| generator 发电机 | cooling system 冷却系统 | rheology 流变性 | spacer 隔离液 |
| bottom plug 下胶塞 | top plug 上胶塞 | bump plug 胶塞碰压 |  |
|  |  |  |  |
|  |  |  |  |
|  |  |  |  |
|  |  |  |  |

---

## Slide 4

Open Hole Log 17.5” Hole

---

## Slide 5

| Elapsed
Time (hr) | Comments |
| --- | --- |
| 4.25 | Rigged up wireline unit & equipment.
- Rigged up SLB wireline equipment.
- Lifted rig-up equipment and accessories to rig floor.
- Rigged up sheaves and cables.
- Made up tools and accessories for tool string #1.
- Performed surface checks and vertical calibrations.
- Zero the depth.
- Monitored well on trip tank.
- Observe 0.1 m3/hr static losses. |
| 9.50 | Conducted OH log run #1: EMS-PPC-MSIP-PPC-GR.
- Run in with OH logging tool string #1.
- RIH acquiring log down check @ 450 mph.
- Tagged at xxxx m.
- Log up main pass from tag depth to xxxx m @ xxx mph.
- Acquired repeat pass from xxxx to xxxx @ xxx mph.
- Pull out of the hole to surface.
- Monitored well on trip tank.
- 0.1 m3/hr static losses. |

---

## Slide 6

| Elapsed
Time (hr) | Comments |
| --- | --- |
| 3.25 | Laid down toolstring #1, picked up tool string #2.
- Laid down tool string #1  EMS-PPC-MSIP-PPC-GR.
- Made up tool string #2  PEX-AIT-GR.
- Performed surface checks.
- Loaded radioactive sources.
- Monitored well on trip tank.
- Observe 0.8 bph static losses. |
| 10.00 | Conduct OH log run #2:PEX-AIT-GR.
- Run in with logging tool string #2..
- Acquired main pass from xxxx to surface @ xxx mph.
- Log repeat pass from xxxx to xxxx @ xxx mph.
- Monitored well on trip tank.
- Well static. |
| 3.50 | Laid down toolstring #2, picked up tool string #3.
- Laid down tool string #2  PEX-AIT-GR.
- Remove radioactive sources.
- Made up tool string #3  ZVSP-GR.
- Performed surface checks.
- Deploy seismic guns in the water.
- Monitored well on trip tank.
- Well static. |

---

## Slide 7

| Elapsed
Time (hr) | Comments |
| --- | --- |
| 4.25 | Conducted OH logging run #3: ZVSP-GR.
- Run in with OH logging tool string #3.
- RIH and take checkshots #1 - #4.
- Perform correlation pass.
- Monitored well on trip tank.
- Well static. |
| 1.00 | Safety Stand Down with All Personal.
Review presentation with crews. Breakout in groups and review incidents.
Hold open discussion on Normalization.
CLOSING COMMENTS:
1. Understanding human error how it affects everybody, proper training and putting proper controls in place.
2. Proper steps, following JSA’s, noticing the common factor of all recent incidents where primarily on new rigs, with new people. Need to develop that safety culture, stop the job. Paying attention to statistics.
3. Permits, isolation and verification, why supervisor double check all permits.
4. Identify hazards on JSA’s and TRIC so we are able to mitigate the hazards.
5. Ensure we update JSA’s to make the task safe for our peers.
6. Safety first, no rush, ensure we are pre-planning and utilizing our authority to stop the job.
7. Incidents can be avoided by conducting job pre-inspections.
8. Ensure we keep a strong safety culture on our rig and look out for each other. |

---

## Slide 8

| Elapsed
Time (hr) | Comments |
| --- | --- |
| 11.75 | Conducted OH logging run #3: ZVSP-GR.
- Continue with OH logging with tool string #3.
- RIH to xxxx.
- Carry out ZVSP pass from xxxx to xxxx.
- Planned 20 sample points.
- Completed 26 sample points.
- Pull out of the hole to surface. |
| 3.50 | Rigged down wireline unit & equipment.
- Held PJSM meeting with crew for L/D & R/D wireline tools.
- POOH and laid down tool string #3.
- Rigged down wireline equipment.
- Rigged down seismic gun assembly.
- Laid down wireline equipment/accessories from rig floor.
- Rigged down sheaves and cables. |
| 1.00 | Service rig floor equipment.
- Hold PJSM with crews.
- Grease dolly track on the topdrive.
- Setup hydraulic pressures on BX elevators.
- Clear and clean rig floor.
- Spot jetting sub on the rig floor. |

Dolly Track

---

## Slide 9

Well Control While OH Wireline Logging

Stop logging

install clamp on the wireline and anchor to rig floor

Cut the wireline with hydraulic cutter. Let wireline tools drop in the hole

Confirm no wire or tools across BOP stack

Close Bline/Shear ram

Open HCR

Monitor well pressure.

---

## Slide 10

Run & Cement 13-5/8” casing

---

## Slide 11

| Elapsed
Time (hr) | Comments |
| --- | --- |
| 3.75 | Pulled wear bushing.
- Trip in with assembly on 5-1/2" DP.
- J-locked into wear bushing and retrieved at xx m.
- Trip out and laid down wear bushing.
- Rack back wear bushing stand.
- Pick up stand out of the derrick and install jet sub.
- Jet BOP's and A-Section profile.
- Conduct BOP function test from drill floor panel. |
| 7.00 | Rig up casing running equipment.
- Rig down drilling equipment.
- Lift casing handling equipment and rig up same.
- Rigged up long bails.
- Rigged up BX3 elevators with 13-5/8" inserts.
- Picked up RMS and place in set back area.
- Rigged up power tongs.
- Rigged up JAM unit.
- Rigged up fill up & circulating tool.
- M/U 13-5/8" x 5-1/2 FH swedge to TIW.
- Test casing handling equipment.
- Planned TOFS taken with the crews.
- Review procedure with TRS & crew.
- Identify hazards, controls & red zone management. |

---

## Slide 12

| Elapsed
Time (hr) | Comments |
| --- | --- |
| 8.75 | Ran 13-5/8" VAM TOP casing.
- Held PJSM meeting with crew for running 13-5/8" casing.
- Picked up float shoe and thread lock joint.
- When making up connection observed substandard graph and high shoulder on jam unit.
- After several attempts, inspected threads and found box and pin damaged.
- Laid down same and picked up back-up.
- Ran 13-5/8" float track assembly.
- 13-5/8" float shoe (tested float - good test).
- 13-5/8" thread lock joint.
- 13-5/8" float collar.
- 13-5/8" float collar (tested float - good test).
- Bakerlocked first 4 connections.
- Ran 13-5/8" casing from xxx to xxxx m.
- Filled casing every joint
- Monitored well on trip tank.
- Proper displacement observed. |
|  | Circulate casing at the 18-5/8" shoe depth.
- Broke circulation at 18-5/8" casing shoe.
- Flow rate: xxx lpm.
- SPP: x Mpa.
- P/U, S/O: xxx/xxx kdaN.
- Remove BX-3 elevators and install Varco spider elevators. |

---

## Slide 13

---

## Slide 14

| Elapsed
Time (hr) | Comments |
| --- | --- |
| 2.25 | Continue to run 13-5/8" casing from xxxx to xxxx.
- Filled casing every joint.
- Broke circulation for 15 min in OH at xxxx m. |
| 1.50 | Troubleshoot Catwalk skate.
- When running 13-5/8" casing in the hole, observed catwalk skate moved forward 2.5m by itself until e-stop was hit.
- Conduct safety stand down and investigate Catwalk.
- No issues found, carried out a risk assessment and continued with barrier & red zone management while running casing.
- Circulate and reciprocate casing during safety stand down. |
| 1.75 | Ran 13-5/8" casing from xxxx to xxxx with singles.
- Filled casing every joint.
- Broke circulation every 300m in OH |
| 2.50 | Break out 2 joints damaged joints.
- Unable to make torque.
- Break out connection and attempt to re-torque.
- Unable to make torque specs.
- Break out joints and laydown. |

---

## Slide 15

| Elapsed
Time (hr) | Comments |
| --- | --- |
| 10.00 | Continued to run 13-5/8" casing.
- Ran 13-5/8" from xxxx to xxxx with doubles.
- Installed 1 x centralizer/stop collar per joint.
- Filled casing every joint. |
| 1.00 | Troubleshoot loss of power from the main rig generators.
- Switch over to rig back up generator system.
- Repair cooling system line on Gen #1.
- Re-energize rig power systems. |
| 6.00 | Land casing at xxxx m & circulate 2 bottoms up.
- Land casing string on the elevators at xxxx m.
- Max PU/SO: xxx/xxx kdaN.
- Circulated 1 bottoms up.
- Rigged out casing fill up tool.
- Riggged up cement head & 2" lines.
- Circulate second bottoms up through cement head.
- No losses observed. |

---

## Slide 16

| Elapsed
Time (hr) | Comments |
| --- | --- |
| 5.50 | Cemented 13-5/8" casing.
- Pumped 80m3 low rheology mud with rig pumps.
- Flush surface lines with 1m3 lead spacer with cmt unit.
- Pressure tested to 2Mpa / 35Mpa for 5 min - good test.
- Pumped 30m3 of 1.25SG spacer with rig pumps.
- Dropped bottom plug from cement head & confirm.
- Mixed & pumped 80m3 of 1.30SG lead slurry.
- Mixed & pumped 15m3 of 1.89SG tail slurry.
- Dropped top plug from the cement head & confirm.
- Pumped 3m3 spacer with cement unit.
- Switch over to the rig pumps & displace.
- Pumped 100m3 drilling mud at 2000 lpm.
- Pumped 10m3 drilling mud at 1000 lpm.
- Pumped 8m3 drilling mud at 500 lpm.
- Total displacement of 118m3.
- Bumped plug with 3Mpa over final circulating pressure.
- FCP: 5.4Mpa.
- Bump pressure: 8.4Mpa.
- Held for 10 min, bleed off pressure, check floats.
- Floats held, 0.8m3 bled back. |

---

## Slide 17

---

## Slide 18

| 固井水泥添加剂 |
| --- |
| retarder 缓凝剂 |
| accelerator 促凝剂 |
| extender 降比重剂 |
| expander 膨胀剂 |
| cenosphere 空心微球 |
| dispersant 分散剂，减阻剂 |
| spacer 隔离液 |
| antifoam 消泡剂 |
| loss circulation 防漏剂 |
| fluid loss control 降滤失剂 |
| anti gas migration 防气窜剂 |
| free water 自由水 |
| right angle set 直角凝固 |

---
