## Slide 1

钻井英语日报详解DDR of QH-1

第九讲

---

## Slide 2

Install B-section, 18-5/8” BOP

---

## Slide 3

本单元的词汇表

| mobilize 调用 | casing slips 卡瓦式套管挂 | casing hanger 
套管挂 | bowl 碗状 |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| segment 分段 | twist off 扭断 | SIMOP simultaneous operations
同时施工 |  |
| redundant 冗余的 | C-plate 假转盘 | manual 手动的 | sticky 粘的 |
| tension 拉力 | set back area 排管区 | tugger 气动绞车 | finger board 指梁 |
| winch 绞车 | helicopter 直升机 | extension 延伸 | clamp 卡子 |
| pipe skate 猫道滑板 | galley 餐厅 | hydrate 使水合 | heat stress 热应激 |
| competence 胜任 | banksman 司索员 | shackle 卸扣 | fall protection 防坠保护 |
| scaffolding 脚手架 | obstruction 障碍物 | DSA Double Stud Adapter
双螺栓转换器 |  |
| mud cross
泥浆四通 | skid 平移 | aft 后面的 | lifting frame 吊架 |

---

## Slide 4

本单元的词汇表

| control hose 控制管 | commence 开始 | bonnet 腔盖 | ram 闸板 |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| plastic packing 塑料填充 | elastomer 弹性体 | ring gasket 钢圈 | flange 法兰 |
| align 对齐 | cylinder 圆柱 | saddle 马鞍 | forklift 叉车 |
| trolley 台车 | platform 平台 | junction box 接线盒 | accumulator 储能器 |
| pad eye 孔眼 | grub screw 平头螺钉 | stab 插入 | hydrostatic 静液压 |
| rotating  link arm 旋转吊臂 | derrick 井架 | pre-charge 预充 | regulator 调压器 |
| blind/shear rams
 剪切盲闸板 | hydraulic control valve
液压控制阀 | deficiency
缺陷 | connection test
连接测试 |
| WBRRT Wear Bushing Running Retrieving Tool
耐磨套下入和取出工具 |  |  |  |
|  |  |  |  |

---

## Slide 5

| Elapsed
Time (hr) | Comments |
| --- | --- |
| 1.25 | Pressure tested 13-5/8" casing.
- Pressure tested casing to 28Mpa/30 min.
- Good test.
- Volume pumped & bled back – 1.5/1.5 m3. |
| 12.50 | Waited on cement.
- Flush 20-3/4" BOP's & A-section.
- Mobilize casing cut tools to the CTU deck.
- Staged tools & equipment for installing B-section on the wellhead.
- Monitored well on trip tank.
- Well static. |
| 6.25 | Installed casing slips & performed rough cut on casing.
- Held PJSM prior to BOP lifting operations.
- Flush BOP with sea water.
- De-energize Koomey & Diverter system.
- Released 20-3/4" drilling adapter connector actuating screws.
- Lifted 20-3/4" BOP.
- Installed 20" x 13-5/8" casing hanger.
- Inspected and cleaned bowl profile.
- Applied 5 kdaN overpull above casing string weight.
- Slack-off weight to allow slip segments to support csg.
- Energized the casing hanger seal with cap screws. |

---

## Slide 6

conductor casing 导管

surface casing 表层套管

intermediate casing 中间套管

production casing 生产套管

production tubing 生产油管

casing head 套管头

surface casing pressure gauge 表套压力表

casing spool 套管头

CHH Casing Head Housing

CHS Casing Head Spool

casing hanger 套管挂

tubing head spool 油管头

tubing hanger 油管挂


---

## Slide 7

tubing head adapter 油管头转换头

lower master valve 下主阀

upper master valve 上主阀

surface choke 地面节流阀

production wing valve 生产翼阀

kill wing valve 压井翼阀

swab valve 抽汲阀

tree adatper 树转换头

tree cap and gauge 树帽和压力表

---

## Slide 8

Casing Hanger

Suspends the casing load

Transfers casing weight

Centers casing

Provides a primary seal in the casing annulus

Creates an annular space

Allows for testing of connections

---

## Slide 9



---

## Slide 10

Mandrel Type Casing Hanger芯轴式套管挂

fluted  开槽的


pack-off 密封


lock ring 锁紧环



---

## Slide 11

| Elapsed
Time (hr) | Comments |
| --- | --- |
| 1.75 | Twisted off bolt when energizing hanger seal.
- When applying torque to the bolts on the casing hanger cap to energize the seals, it was observed 1 of the bolts had twisted off.
- Further investigation found it was a bolt in the middle of the long cap segment. |
| 6.00 | Performed rough cut on casing and lay down landing joint and cut joint.
- Held PJSM prior to BOP lifting operations.
- Performed rough cut on 13-5/8" landing string.
- Laid down rough cut 13-5/8" casing landing string.
- Rigged down casing handling equipment.

SIMOPS:
- Remove Accumulator BOP control hoses from 20.75'' 3M BOP.
- Remove 3-1/16'' Choke & Kill line from BOP stack. |
| 3.50 | Rig down casing handling equipment & rig up diverter handling equipment.
- Remove BX3 elevators.
- Remove casing bails & install drilling bails.
- Clear redundant equipment from rig floor.
- Mobilize C-plates to the rig floor.
- Install manual elevators. |

---

## Slide 12

| Elapsed
Time (hr) | Comments |
| --- | --- |
| 1.00 | Troubleshoot locking dog & retrieve diverter.
- Remove master bushings & outer rotary ring.
- Pick up diverter running tool.
- Latched onto to diverter & unable to hoist due to sticky port forward locking dog.
- Slack off tension & troubleshoot diverter locking dogs with maintenance crews.
- Release locking dogs & hoist to the rotary table. |
| 1.25 | Rack back diverter.
- Install Diverter C-plate & slack off weight.
- Disconnect bails from 5 1/2" manual elevators.
- Install 30T slings & attach to 5 1/2" Manual elevators.
- Disconnect Diverter & rack back in set back area. |
| 3.50 | Diverter incident in set back area.
- Incorrect direction of tugger operation causing racked back Diverter to fall on its side between pipe & C&K Manifold.
- Stop operations.
- Secure rig floor & hold TOFS with the Team.
- Visually inspect finger board, 5T winch sheaves & winch cable in derrick. |

---

## Slide 13

| Elapsed
Time (hr) | Comments |
| --- | --- |
| 2.25 | Laid out overshot mandrel.
- Hold PJSM with crew on laying down overshot assembly.
- Lay down overshot assembly.
- Deck crew attend helicopter duties.
- Pick up overshot extension and install handling clamp on overshot.
- Unscrew overshot extension threaded ring.
- Lay down overshot extension onto pipe skate.
- Remove overshot extension handling clamp.
- Remove overshot extension from the rig floor.
- Move 5 feet overshot from the well center to the set back area.
- Install master bushing and outer ring. |
| 1.00 | Safety stand conducted in galley with all crews.
- OIM & Company man discussed recent incidents & events.
- Reminded crew to take the necessary time to conduct their business, planning in the most safe and efficient way.
- Reminded crew about taking the TOFS to re-hydrate & be mindful of the heat stress procedures.
- Discuss procedure on Diverter being placed back to home position.
- Discussed communication & operator standards.
- Discussed operator competence & banksman signals. |
| 1.00 | Lay out overshot.
- Lay out 30" x 24" overshot cross over.
- Transfer from hydro-racker to crane.
- Lay down to cantilever. |

---

## Slide 14

Heat Index

---

## Slide 15

| Elapsed
Time (hr) | Comments |
| --- | --- |
| 4.00 | Pick up diverter & place in set back area.
- Retrieve KFDJ-500 Diverter & stand in the set back.
- Secure KFDJ-500 Diverter.
- Remove 30T cable slings from 5-1/2" manual elevators & install 17T shackles.
- Pull master bushings out of the rotary table. |
| 2.00 | Rig down mandrel.
- Run below rotary 30T slings to top of 24'' mandrel.
- Install 17.5T shackles to 24'' mandrel.
- Nipple down mandrel bolts.
- Raise 24'' mandrel to rotary table.
- Remove install rotary table fall protection guards.
- Install master bushings in the rotary table.
- Lay out 24'' mandrel to cantilever.
- Clear & Clean up scaffolding of obstructions/BOP bolts.
- Clean top of annular of heavy mud cuttings |

---

## Slide 16

| Elapsed
Time (hr) | Comments |
| --- | --- |
| 3.25 | Rig down 20-3/4" BOP.
- Nipple down remaining 20-3/4'' BOP bolts between mud cross & DSA.
- Raise 20-3/4‘’ BOP from DSA connection using 125T BOP trolley.
- Skid 20-3/4'' BOP from well center to aft set back BOP trolley & secure.
- Remove 125T BOP trolley from 20-3/4'' BOP lifting frame.
- Remove 36'' rotary table master bushings & install rotary fall prevention guards.
- Run below rotary table 30T slings to top of 20-3/4‘’ 3M DSA. & attach DSA adaptor lifting plate.
- Raise 20-3/4'' DSA to Rig floor & secure rotary table.
- Clean up & lay out 20-3/4'' DSA to the cantilever |
| 3.75 | Perform final cut on 13-5/8".
- Hold PJSM with all involved in cold cutting operations.
- All crew taken the necessary time to re-hydrate before continuing to assist with cold cutting operations & preparing to remove the 20-3/4" BOP rams.
- Perform final casing cut @ 18cm from the top face of the 20'' Casing head.
- Remove casing cut off and clean up cold cutting equipment.
- Dress 13-3/8" casing head for B-section installation.
- Rig down top level of scaffolding to allow access for B-section.

SIMOPS:
- Rig up slings and Prepare B-section for installation using the 5T aux BOP chain hoists as per procedure.
- Install BOP control hoses to 20-3/4'' BOP & commence backing out bonnet bolts in preparation to remove the 20-3/4" rams. |

---

## Slide 17

| Elapsed
Time (hr) | Comments |
| --- | --- |
| 7.50 | Installed 13-3/8" casing head B-section.
- Installed 13-3/8" well head and test same.
- Changed out defective upper seal.
- Injected plastic packing to energize BT elastomer seals.
- Pressure tested BT seals.
- Pressure test @ 12.5MPa for 15 min - good test.
- Pressure tested above slip casing hanger, ring gasket, and lower BT seal.
- Pressure test @ 12.5Mpa for 15 min - good test. |
| 2.00 | Nippled up drilling adapter and DSA.
- Held a PJSM with crew for nippling up DSA.
- Nippled up drilling adapter and DSA to casing spool.
- Torqued up all connections. |
| 3.00 | Remove DSA lifting plate and modify scaffolding.
- Remove DSA lifting plate to the rig floor.
- Modify scaffolding to allow access for nipple up of DSA to 18-3/4'' BOP flange.
- Skid 18.75'' BOP fully aft of moon pool area in preparation to be lifted with 125T BOP crane. |
| 1.00 | Align BOP crane to 18-3/4" BOP lifting points.
- Adjust and align 125T BOP crane to 18.75'' lifting points.
- Checked cylinder alignment and ensured both lifting saddles were center of the BOP lifting fork.
- Paint and mark trolley frame alignments for future operations. |

---

## Slide 18

| Elapsed
Time (hr) | Comments |
| --- | --- |
| 5.75 | Modify 18-3/4" BOP lower work platform.
- Prior to traversing BOP's to well head it was identified the lower BOP work platform would contact the CTU junction box.
- Utilize rig welder and modify lower work platform.
- Reposition CTU control hoses, cut and remove frame from inside CTU. |
| 2.25 | Transverse 18-3/4" BOP and land on DSA.
- Transverse 18-3/4" BOP from set back area.
- Line up and land on DSA.
- Nipple up DSA flange bolts and torque. |
| 8.00 | Rig up 18-3/4 BOP equipment.
- Torqued 18-3/4" BOP to DSA flange.
- Installed control lines.
- Pressured up Accumulator system.
- Visually check for leaks and function test with visual check.
- Install choke and kill co-flex hoses.
- Torqued up all connections. |
| 12.75 | Install 18-3/4" BOP 85T secondary retention slings.
- Install Starboard 85T sling to tension system.
- Install Port 85T sling to tension system.
- Connect shackles to 18 3/4" BOP pad eyes.
- Take 70% tension on cylinders and lower down BOP crane. |

---

## Slide 19

| Elapsed
Time (hr) | Comments |
| --- | --- |
| 1.50 | Nipple up riser mandrel.
- Held PJSM meeting with crew for N/U riser mandrel.
- Nippled up riser mandrel and torque same. |
| 1.25 | Connect secondary retention to 18-3/4" BOP.
- Connect shackles to 18 3/4" BOP pad eyes.
- Take 70% tension on cylinders and lower down BOP crane.
- Double check all correct tension weights on primary and secondary CTU cylinders. |
| 0.50 | Nipple up overshot and diverter.
- Nippled up overshot and EC6 spool connectors.
- Install overshot lip seal.
- Pick up diverter from set back and make up to overshot.
- Pick up and install 3/8" grub screws. |
| 2.00 | Function test and repair diverter locking dogs.
- Pressure up BOP and diverter control system and perform function test on diverter locking dogs.
- Observed Koomey fluid leaking past the Port aft locking dog when in the open position.
- Bleed down BOP control system and isolate the port aft locking dog.
- Repair port aft locking dog leaks.
- Re pressurized the BOP control |

---

## Slide 20

| Elapsed
Time (hr) | Comments |
| --- | --- |
| 2.25 | Land out diverter on riser mandrel.
- Lower overshot diverter assembly over the mandrel and land out diverter assembly.
- Energize flowline seal and overshot packer.
- Filled annulus with sea water and visually check for leaks.
- Observed leak from lower and middle EC-6 connections. |
| 4.00 | Repair diverter and overshot assembly EC6 seals.
- Pick up diverter assembly and replace seals in the middle and lower EC-6 connections.
- RIH with diverter and overshot assembly, stab over mandrel.
- Confirm correct land out and re-energize BOP control system.
- Perform hydrostatic test on seals. Good test. |
| 4.25 | Make up 13-3/8" test plug assembly to a stand of 5-1/2" DP.
- Install BX-4 elevators with 5 1/2" inserts and rotating link arm.
- Layout 20" test plug assembly and layout to cantilever.
- P/U and M/U 13-3/8" test plug assembly to a stand of 5-1/2" DP and rack back in derrick same. |
| 4.75 | Pressure tested 18-3/4" BOP connections.
- RIH with test plug on 5-1/2" DP and land in 13-3/8" casing head.
- Picked up Combination Tool (test plug mode).
- Made up with 5x stands 5-1/2" DP
- Made up surface lines to side entry sub assembly.
- Cementer flush through surface lines and perform line test.
- 2.5/35 MPa 5/5mins. Good test. |

---

## Slide 21

| Elapsed
Time (hr) | Comments |
| --- | --- |
| 3.50 | Pressure tested 18-3/4" BOP connections.
- Pressure tested 18-3/4" BOP (connection test)
- Pressure tested DSA, TIW, C&K connections.
- Observed leak at B-section locking dog.
- Tighten all locking dogs. No leaks.
- Pressure 2.5 / 35 MPa for 5 min each - good test.
- Rigged down all surface lines.
- POOH and laid down test plug assembly.
- Racked back 4 stands of 5-1/2" DP. |
| 1.25 | Accumulator function test and volume test.
- Space out 5-1/2" DP and conduct Accumulator volume test.
- Shut off power supply to both pumps.
- Pre-charge pressure 10 MPa.
- Annular regulator set at 10 Mpa.
- Initial accumulator pressure 35 MPa.
- Close annular - 18 sec – 19.7MPa.
- Close upper pipe rams - 15 sec – 18.3Mpa.
- Open upper pipe rams (simulate blind shear rams) - 18 sec – 15.9MPa.
- Close middle pipe rams - 14 sec – 14.1Mpa.
- Close bottom pipe rams - 14 sec – 13.4 MPa.
- Close hydraulic control valve - 03 sec – 13.1Mpa.
- Final accumulator pressure after all functions was 13.1MPa.
- Recharge time with both pumps was 64 seconds.
- No deficiencies noted.
- Pulled out of hole with last stand of 5-1/2" DP.
- Function tested blind shear rams. |

---

## Slide 22

| Elapsed
Time (hr) | Comments |
| --- | --- |
| 1.75 | Set wear bushing in 13-3/8" B-section.
- Held PJSM meeting with crew.
- Picked up Combination Tool (WBRRT).
- RIH with wear bushing on 5-1/2" DP.
- Land wear bushing inside 13-3/8" B-section.
- POOH and racked back Combination Tool (WBRRT).
- Clean and clear rig floor. |

---
