25 May 2025 | 6:52PM JST

# Number 3: What corporates are telling us (as of May 16, 2025)
#### **Japan Export Tracker**



The GS Japan team launched the Japan Export Tracker in April 2025, with a focus on

commentary from Japanese corporates on the impact of tariffs. Following on from

the frst and second editions, in this third tracker we summarize commentary from

corporates that announced results over May 12-16. Together, the three editions track

commentary from 127 companies in our Japan tech, auto, capital goods, and

retail/consumer related coverage (accounting for c.37% of TSE market cap). As

before, we focus on: (1) the impact of tariffs, (2) actions taken in response to tariffs,

and (3) changes in assumptions for the FY25 business environment and/or medium
to long-term strategies, including factors besides tariffs.


The 10 findings/implications from the first/second trackers are largely unchanged.

**However, we highlight four further developments in our third tracker:**


**Impact of tariffs by industry:** We now have a clearer picture of the forecast total

impact of tariffs, which comes to at least **¥4.5 tn**, with ¥3.6 tn (c.80%) attributable to

automakers/tiremakers. Industrial electronics, games & entertainment, construction

machinery each account for c.4-6%, and electronic components for c.3%.


**Tariff countermeasures/price pass-through:** Differences in countermeasures by

industry/among companies have become clearer. The net impact relative to the

gross impact of tariffs is c.70% for automakers (30% mitigation), 20-60% for

construction machinery and auto parts-related companies (40-80% mitigation), and

zero for tires (i.e., 100% mitigation). Many other B2B companies (upstream supply


chain) expect to achieve a high degree of mitigation.


**Corporate governance reforms:** During the tracking period for this third edition,

investor interest was high in Sony Group, Kyocera, and Kuraray. While each company

is in a different phase, investor attention is already shifting from tariffs to the degree

of progress in corporate governance.


**Opportunities:** In addition to seeing potential opportunities in downtrading,

investment in efficiency, and the materialization of US semiconductor investment,

companies increasingly noted an **upturn in areas related to China capex**,

suggesting potential for this to emerge as another theme.



Daiki Takayama
+81(3)4587-9870 |
daiki.takayama@gs.com
Goldman Sachs Japan Co., Ltd.


Yuichiro Isayama
+81(3)4587-9806 |
yuichiro.isayama@gs.com
Goldman Sachs Japan Co., Ltd.


Kota Yuzawa
+81(3)4587-9863 | kota.yuzawa@gs.com
Goldman Sachs Japan Co., Ltd.


Sho Kawano
+81(3)4587-9905 | sho.kawano@gs.com
Goldman Sachs Japan Co., Ltd.


Ryo Harada
+81(3)4587-9865 | ryo.harada@gs.com
Goldman Sachs Japan Co., Ltd.


Takeru Adachi
+81(3)4587-4067 |
takeru.adachi@gs.com
Goldman Sachs Japan Co., Ltd.


Shuhei Nakamura
+81(3)4587-9932 |
shuhei.nakamura@gs.com
Goldman Sachs Japan Co., Ltd.


Atsushi Ikeda
+81(3)4587-9940 |
atsushi.ikeda@gs.com
Goldman Sachs Japan Co., Ltd.


Chikai Tanaka, CFA
+81(3)4587-9840 | chikai.tanaka@gs.com
Goldman Sachs Japan Co., Ltd.


Minami Munakata
+81(3)4587-9830 |
minami.munakata@gs.com
Goldman Sachs Japan Co., Ltd.


Takashi Miyazaki
+81(3)4587-9896 |
takashi.miyazaki@gs.com
Goldman Sachs Japan Co., Ltd.


Mitsuhiro Icho
+81(3)4587-9836 |
mitsuhiro.x.icho@gs.com
Goldman Sachs Japan Co., Ltd.



Goldman Sachs does and seeks to do business with companies covered in its research reports. As a result,
investors should be aware that the firm may have a conflict of interest that could affect the objectivity of this
report. Investors should consider this report as only a single factor in making their investment decision. For Reg AC
certification and other important disclosures, see the Disclosure Appendix, or go to
www.gs.com/research/hedge.html. Analysts employed by non-US affiliates are not registered/qualified as research
analysts with FINRA in the U.S.


Goldman Sachs Japan Export Tracker


25 May 2025 2


Goldman Sachs Japan Export Tracker

#### **Looking back at the first two trackers: 10 key findings/implications remain** **unchanged**


In Exhibits 1-3, we present summaries of key comments from corporates that

announced results between May 12-16. We continue to focus on: (1) the impact of

tariffs, (2) actions taken in response to tariffs, and (3) changes in assumptions for the

FY25 business environment and/or medium- to long-term strategies, including factors

besides tariffs. The 10 key findings and implications we presented in the first tracker are

unchanged. However, **we highlight four further developments in the third tracker:**


n **2:** We now have a clearer picture of the total expected impact in numerical terms.


n **4, 5:** The status of mitigation efforts and the differences by industry and company


have also become clearer.


n **8:** Regarding companies such as Sony Group, Kyocera, and Kuraray, investor


attention is already shifting from tariffs to the degree of progress in corporate

governance, e.g., (even though these companies are all in differing phases in terms


of governance implementation).


n **9:** An upturn in areas related to China capex has started to become more prominent.


**1.** **Guidance:** Assumptions and expressions regarding the impact of tariffs vary widely


among companies, reflecting the uncertain outlook.


**2.** **Impact by industry:** The impact and expressions of concern are particularly


noteworthy in the auto sector. We also note cautious views, mainly regarding

indirect impacts, particularly in tech hardware, electronic devices, and factory

automation (FA). On the other hand, semiconductor production equipment (SPE) and


IT services appear to be relatively insulated from tariff impacts.


**3.** **Front-loaded orders:** Front-loaded orders and customer inventory replenishment


are evident for some products, such as PCs, tablets, and smartphones. Front-loaded


orders, presumably related to Apple, are particularly noticeable.


**4.** **Tariff actions (upstream):** Most companies in upstream supply chains (mainly B2B)


are moving to pass on price increases.


**5.** **Tariff actions (downstream):** Downstream supply chains (mainly B2C) with a direct


connection with US consumers are also generally looking to pass on price increases.

That said, corporates are also assessing demand trends and the competitive and

market share landscape.


**6.** **Production allocation:** Many companies said that they are reviewing and


restructuring to optimize their global production, with some mentioning expansion of

production in India and utilization of European bases. Some are also considering

expanding capacity in North America. Companies with a global footprint appear to

be at an advantage.


**7.** **Assumptions:** The mainstream FY2025 FX assumption is ¥140-145/US$. The base


case for volume assumptions for major products (smartphones/PCs/tablets) is

roughly flat yoy.


**8.** **Corporate governance reforms:** These continue unabated, with some companies


actually actively stepping up shareholder returns. Capex is largely being directed


25 May 2025 3


Goldman Sachs Japan Export Tracker


toward enhancing competitiveness.


**9.** **Opportunities:** Some companies are viewing the rapidly changing business


environment as an opportunity. Three themes are downtrading, investments in

efficiency, and expansion of semiconductor investment. An upturn in areas related to

China capex appears to be gaining further momentum.


**10.** **Noteworthy comments from senior management:** A common thread is a


management philosophy that does not view the impact of tariffs myopically, but

rather maintains a clear focus on preserving growth potential even in a rapidly

changing business environment, underscoring the importance of leadership.

#### **Impact of tariffs: Total expected impact of c.¥4.5 tn, with automakers and** **tire manufacturers accounting for c.80%**


**1. Guidance**

In the guidance from companies that announced results between May 12-16, **the**

**factoring in of tariff impact continued to vary from company to company**, with

some not incorporating tariffs into their guidance, and some incorporating them (with

differences in the period and whether direct/indirect impacts were incorporated). Based

on feedback from investors, it appears that **companies that have fully and thoroughly**

**factored in the impact of tariffs are regarded as having lower earnings risk and**

**viewed more favorably.** For example, **Sumitomo Electric Industries** factored detailed

estimation of tariff impact into guidance, disclosing an expected gross impact of ¥100

bn and a net impact of ¥40 bn after mitigation measures, broken down by segment and

impact timing (1H/2H). This was one of the most detailed disclosures among the

companies that have reported so far. Meanwhile, regarding the **two construction**

**machinery manufacturers** (which announced results before the tracking period for this

third tracker), our investor feedback suggested that investors are reassured about

Komatsu’s earnings, as it has factored in the impact of tariffs, while for Hitachi


Construction Machinery, which has not factored in tariff impact, investors are taking a

wait-and-see approach while they assess earnings risk.


**2. Impact by industry**

With almost all export-related companies having now announced results (during the

period covered by our first through third trackers), we would like to revisit the numerical

impact of tariffs.


Exhibit 1 shows the total impact of tariffs at the companies covered by the first through

third trackers. The results show that **the total impact of tariffs is expected to be at**

**least ¥4.5 tn.** We say “at least” because some companies did not disclose the gross

impact of tariffs (i.e., they only disclosed the net impact after mitigation measures), and

for these companies we have only included the net impact in our calculations. The


estimated total impact would be greater based on gross impact at these companies.


The estimated **impact of tariffs on automakers is particularly large** . Our estimate of

the gross impact of tariffs (automakers and tire manufacturers, 13 companies in total) is

**¥3.6 tn, accounting for c.80% of the total** . **Industrial electronics, games &**


25 May 2025 4


Goldman Sachs Japan Export Tracker


**entertainment, and construction machinery each account for c.6-4%, and**

**electronic components account for c.3%** (Exhibit 2).


Among the companies that announced results during the tracking period for this third

tracker, **Sony Group** disclosed a relatively large impact from tariffs (¥100 bn) in terms of

the actual amount. However, as the company said **it can manage the impact to less**

**than 10% of company-wide operating profits**, investors now appear to be more

interested in capital allocation and growth strategy than tariffs.


There is no change to our view that **SPE and IT services will remain relatively**

**insulated from the impact of tariffs**, and that fundamentals in these sectors will

remain strong.


**Exhibit 1: Total impact of tariffs at companies covered by our first**
**through third trackers (including companies that disclosed gross**
**impact and companies that disclosed net impact)**


Total for companies that disclosed gross impact (including some estimates from our autos team for
automakers) and companies that disclosed net impact


Source: Company data, Goldman Sachs Global Investment Research


25 May 2025 5


Goldman Sachs Japan Export Tracker


**Exhibit 2: Impact of tariffs by industry (net impact)**











For automakers, we use the net tariff impact estimated by our autos team based on company assumptions.


Source: Company data, Goldman Sachs Global Investment Research


**3: Front-loaded orders**

There were no additional highlights regarding front-loaded orders this time. We

observed no change in the data points indicating front-loaded orders for **consumer**

**electronics such as smartphones (notably related to Apple) and PCs, particularly in**

**upstream supply chains where there are a limited number of suppliers** .


On the other hand, it appears that front-loaded orders are not occurring across all

components/devices. In addition to Taiyo Yuden (MLCCs) and Hirose Electric

(connectors), which we mentioned in the second tracker, Sony Group also said that it

**has not seen any particular front-loading for CMOS image sensors** .


25 May 2025 6


Goldman Sachs Japan Export Tracker

#### **Actions taken in response to tariffs: B2B companies continue to pass on** **price increases; for B2C companies, the approach varies depending on** **competition and demand; tire manufacturers are looking to pass through** **100% of the impact, while automakers are mitigating c.30%, based on** **initial assumptions**


**4 and 5: Tariff actions (upstream and downstream)**

As we have noted previously, most companies in upstream supply chains (mainly B2B)

are moving to pass through price increases. Downstream supply chains (mainly B2C) are

also generally looking to pass on price increases, but the tone varies by industry and

company, reflecting demand trends and the competitive and market share landscape.

With almost all export-related companies having now announced results, **the**

**differences in the degree of mitigation by industry and company have become**

**clearer in numerical terms.**


Exhibit 3 shows the degree of mitigation for industries/companies that have disclosed


their assumptions, or for which we have been able to estimate their assumptions, for

the gross and net impact of tariffs. The exhibit shows that **the net impact relative to**

**the gross impact of tariffs is c.70% for automakers (30% mitigation), 20-60% for**

**construction machinery and auto parts-related companies (80-40% mitigation),**

**and zero for tires (i.e., 100% mitigation).** In addition, **many of the B2B companies**

**(upstream supply chain) not included in the exhibit data are expected to achieve a**

**high degree of mitigation/price pass-through** (this can also be seen in Exhibit 2

which shows the impact of tariffs by industry).


**Automakers**

The focus in FY3/25 results announcements was on the likely gross negative impact of

tariffs, and mitigation efforts. While it is difficult to make direct comparisons as

companies based their forecasts on differing assumptions, **our impression is that**


**many automakers have factored in mitigation efforts of c.30% into their initial**

**operating profit guidance.**


**Automakers that clearly disclosed mitigation measures to offset the impact of**

**tariffs included Honda (31%), Nissan (30%), Mitsubishi Motors (20%), and Isuzu**

**(20%)** . We believe the figures at this stage represent rough estimates, and that

companies are signaling an intention to mitigate at least around 30% of the impact. We

expect further mitigation measures in the form of expansion of sales of US-made

models, curbs on variable/fixed costs, and increases in real-terms prices.


**Japanese automakers have not yet made any official announcements regarding**

**price increases.** We believe that they are currently weighing up two factors: the

outcome of US-Japan trade negotiations, and US auto demand fundamentals (declining


consumer confidence). We assume that automakers will rein in incentives per vehicle

(resulting in real-terms price increases) from May onward, followed by regular price

increases in conjunction with model year changes in the July-September quarter (in

response to broader inflation). **As a result, our earnings estimates incorporate the**

**possibility of c.70% mitigation**, and we continue to see potential for profits to exceed


25 May 2025 7


Goldman Sachs Japan Export Tracker


company forecasts.


**Tire manufacturers**

**Tire manufacturers plan to mitigate 100% of the impact of tariffs.** Overall, they

expressed confidence in their ability to respond to tariffs. **Bridgestone, Sumitomo**

**Rubber Industries, and Toyo Tire** all said they can fully absorb the impact of tariffs

through price increases and internal efforts, and that they expect to achieve their initial

FY12/25 guidance. However, while saying it can mitigate the ¥45 bn direct impact of

tariffs, Bridgestone noted a possible ¥20 bn indirect impact from a US economic

slowdown resulting from the tariffs, which it sees as an additional downside risk.


**Exhibit 3: Mitigation of tariff impact by industry/company**











Only companies that disclosed both the gross and net impact of tariffs are included. For automakers, we use the gross/net tariff impact estimated by our
autos team based on company assumptions.


Source: Company data, Goldman Sachs Global Investment Research


25 May 2025 8


Goldman Sachs Japan Export Tracker


**Exhibit 4: Companies with the largest expected net tariff impact**













For automakers, we use the gross/net tariff impact estimated by our autos team based on company assumptions. For Panasonic, we use ¥78 bn, the
maximum amount implied by the company’s comment that the impact on consolidated sales is likely to be less than 1% of consolidated sales (less than
¥78 bn).


Source: Company data, Goldman Sachs Global Investment Research

#### **FY25 assumptions and longer-term strategies, including on factors other** **than tariffs: Governance reforms progressing steadily. Opportunities:** **Momentum in China-related capex is building**


**6: Production facility allocation**

Below we highlight commentary from two companies on allocation of production

operations. As we have noted previously, **companies with a global footprint are**

**taking flexible measures** .


**Kuraray** has a strong presence in the US, mainly in core businesses such as EVAL

(c.56% of production capacity in the US as of end-2024), poval resin (c.29%), activated

carbon (c.69% for new carbon), and SEPTON (c.39%), with a local production for local

consumption framework in place for most products sold to the US market. For products

such as activated carbon, where there are exports from China to the US, tariffs reducing

the competitiveness of Chinese products could provide a relative advantage for Kuraray.

While the company also exports some products (such as EVAL) from the US to China, it

can respond by shipping from other bases in Japan and Europe. **We look for Kuraray’s**

**ability to manage risk by utilizing its globally dispersed manufacturing base**

**network to stand out** .


**Sony Group** is taking flexible measures across the company, including building up

strategic inventories in the US, adjusting product shipment allocations globally, and

passing on a certain level of cost increases to prices with a close eye on market trends.

The company commented that **it has already expanded production of the PS5 from**

**mainly China to four countries** .


25 May 2025 9


Goldman Sachs Japan Export Tracker


**7: FX Assumptions**

Of the 127 companies in our survey, 90 disclosed their exchange rate assumptions.

Many companies continue to assume an exchange rate of ¥140-145/US$ for FY25 (the

average for FY24 was slightly over ¥150/US$). Specifically, of the 90 companies, 37

used ¥140/US$, 28 used ¥145/US, and 69 assumed a USD/JPY rate within the ¥140-145

range. During the period covered by this third tracker, **Honda Motor** and **Kyocera**

disclosed an assumption for USD/JPY below ¥140, at ¥135/US$.


**8. Governance reforms**

**While the stage of corporate governance reforms varies from company to**

**company, our view that these reforms will continue to progress at Japanese**

**companies is unchanged. We highlight comments from Sony Group, Kyocera, and**

**Kuraray disclosed during the period covered by this third tracker.**


**Sony Group** explained that in its medium- to long-term strategy and capital allocation,

group reforms associated with its focus on entertainment have contributed to strong

earnings. The company reiterated that the organic connection between the group’s

diverse businesses and human resources is its unique strength. It also expressed

confidence in attaining deeper synergies among group companies, saying that

collaboration in the entertainment business has shifted from a top-down to a bottom-up

phase, increasing the speed of collaboration.


In terms of capital policy, Sony raised the amount earmarked for capital allocation over

the three-year business plan covering FY3/25-FY3/27 from ¥4.5 tn to ¥4.8 tn, reflecting

stronger-than-expected earnings. The company said the ¥0.3 tn increase will be

allocated to shareholder returns. Sony guides for DPS to rise by ¥5 yoy in FY3/26 (from

¥20 to ¥25), which is larger than the ¥3 increase in FY3/25 vs. FY3/24. The company also

set a share buyback allowance of ¥250 bn for FY3/26, the same as at the beginning of

FY3/25.


While Sony expects to reduce capex in the I&SS (Imaging & Sensing Solutions) to

c.70% of the level in the previous medium-term plan (FY3/22-FY3/24), it said that from

the next medium-term plan ahead of 2030, capex related to the production of finer

mobile image sensors will gradually increase to a level similar to that in the previous

plan (cumulative investment cash flow for the I&SS business was c.¥1 tn over the three

years from FY3/22 to FY3/24).


**Investor interest in optimal capital allocation remains very strong, with active**


**discussions continuing** on how to balance the need for further investment to

strengthen Sony Group’s global leadership in entertainment with the need for

investment in the semiconductor business, in order to further raise ROIC. We believe

**this reflects high expectations for the evolution of Japanese companies beyond**

**corporate governance reforms** .


Meanwhile, **Kyocera** reaffirmed its (1) steady execution of share buybacks and reduction

of strategic shareholdings, (2) steady move toward profitability at Kyocera AVX (KAVX)

and in organic packaging, and (3) execution of business transfers/withdrawals (¥200 bn)

as planned.


25 May 2025 10


Goldman Sachs Japan Export Tracker


The company formally announced a ¥200 bn share buyback (c. 9.67% of outstanding

shares). It also stated it will reduce strategic shareholdings by roughly ¥500 bn by

FY3/27, and that its subsequent target is for these to account for less than 20% of

equity (we estimate this implies a further reduction of c.¥500 bn). In terms of business

selection, Kyocera’s assumption of business transfers/withdrawals of ¥200 bn during

FY3/26 remains unchanged. In terms of resource concentration, in its devices business

the company will focus on SPE components, ceramic packaging, MLCCs, and tantalum

capacitors, while in solutions it will promote business model transformation.


**While Kyocera’s governance reforms are still in their early stages, the company has**

**begun taking actions to steadily improve profits and capital efficiency** .


**Kuraray**, which has been viewed by the equity market as not particularly active in share

buybacks, announced a ¥30 bn buyback in 1Q FY25 (c.6.79% of total outstanding shares

excluding treasury stock). Furthermore, at the results briefing, management commented

that it views its current equity ratio of c.59% as somewhat high, and would like to lower


it to the lower end of the 50-60% range, in order to raise ROE. **We understand this**

**implies that a large-scale share buyback will be necessary, considering that net**

**profits are expected to increase significantly due to top-line growth in the**


**company’s core businesses (based on our estimates).** We will be watching for further

efforts to enhance shareholder returns.


Exhibit 5 shows the results of our analysis of actual capex in FY24 vs. FY25 capex

guidance at companies covered by the first through third trackers. Many companies plan

to increase capex yoy.


25 May 2025 11


Goldman Sachs Japan Export Tracker


**Exhibit 5: Aggressive investment to bolster competitiveness and technological strengths: Actual and**
**planned capex for 127 companies that announced results through May 16 (34 companies that did not**
**disclose guidance were excluded from the exhibit)**











Source: Company data, Goldman Sachs Global Investment Research


**9. Opportunities**

In terms of positive opportunities, the three themes of downtrading, investments in

efficiency, and expansion of semiconductor investment (mainly concrete developments


in the US) remain key, as discussed in our first and second trackers.


In addition to these, we highlight a new development: **Japanese manufacturers are**

**beginning to see strong momentum in industrial sectors where China is increasing**

**investment** .


25 May 2025 12


Goldman Sachs Japan Export Tracker


Corporates have been investing actively in localization/domestic production in China

against the backdrop of US-China trade friction. However, our impression is that

Japanese companies are seeing even stronger China-related capex recently. The

monthly orders by region disclosed by **SMC** are a prime example.


**Exhibit 6: SMC’s April orders by region: China stands out with particularly strong growth**



Source: Company data


We also highlight **Hirose Electric** as another example. Its BB ratio in the industrial

segment (Mar quarter) was 1.13x and order recovery from distributors is more visible.

Hirose sees strength especially for China local industrial companies, and for

PLC/CNC/servo motor-related applications.


While this could include subsidy impact and policy expectations, some companies are

concerned about a turnaround from May onward. However, we think expectations are

gradually building for sustained strong capex in China in the following three areas: (1)

semiconductors and related manufacturing equipment, (2) the EV and battery supply

chain with a view to expanding exports, and (3) essential areas such as pharmaceuticals

where raising the domestic production ratio is an urgent task.


**10: Key commentary from senior management**

We summarize comments from CEOs who touched on long-term business principles

beyond tariffs. A common thread through them is a management stance that considers

tariff impacts with foresight and not in a disorganized manner, but rather with a clear

focus on preserving growth potential even in a rapidly changing business environment,

underscoring the importance of leadership.


25 May 2025 13


Goldman Sachs Japan Export Tracker


**Sony Group CEO Hiroki Totoki**


In recent years, Sony Group’s management focus has shifted significantly toward

entertainment, reflecting the strength and growth potential of the entertainment

business. The company is driven by the power of entertainment to move people’s hearts

and fill the world with emotion, aimed at the core of Sony Group’s purpose. Strategic

investments and content expansion in the entertainment business, as well as

development and utilization of innovative technologies, have contributed to Sony Group’s

transformation, leading to the very strong earnings performance seen at present.


Furthermore, Sony is accelerating the pace of synergies being created among its

games, anime/movies, and music businesses. Initially, this was promoted top-down as a

group-wide policy, but as management has created an environment for synergy

creation, multiple projects are now underway on a bottom-up basis. True synergies are

born from the bottom up, and as this is the real source of competitiveness, things are

moving in a desirable direction.


Below, we present commentary by sector. As there was little commentary on tariffs

from companies in the IT services sector, we have omitted this as it is not meaningful to

present it on a company-specific basis.


**Exhibit 7: Electronic component/semiconductor company commentary (covered by Daiki Takayama)**



























|Company name<br>Rohm|Ticker<br>6963.T|Rating<br>Neutral|Analyst<br>Daiki Takayama|Sub Sector<br>Electronic Components|Result day<br>5/13 (Tue)|Company commentary (on tariff impacts)<br>The impact of tariffs is uncertain and is not factored into guidance.<br>However, the direct impact is minor and is expected to be mainly indirect.|Col8|Col9|Col10|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|Kyocera|6971.T|Buy|Daiki Takayama|Electronic Components|5/14 (Wed)|The company assumes three types of impact: (1) exports from the company to the US, (2)<br>exports to the US via third countries, and (3) imports by the company's US bases from other<br>companies. It assumes a 10% tariff rate for Apr-Jun, and reciprocal tariff rates (by exporting<br>country, as of May 9) from July onward. It estimates the total impact at -¥17 bn (of which -¥13<br>bn is in the solutions business).|The company assumes three types of impact: (1) exports from the company to the US, (2)<br>exports to the US via third countries, and (3) imports by the company's US bases from other<br>companies. It assumes a 10% tariff rate for Apr-Jun, and reciprocal tariff rates (by exporting<br>country, as of May 9) from July onward. It estimates the total impact at -¥17 bn (of which -¥13<br>bn is in the solutions business).|The company assumes three types of impact: (1) exports from the company to the US, (2)<br>exports to the US via third countries, and (3) imports by the company's US bases from other<br>companies. It assumes a 10% tariff rate for Apr-Jun, and reciprocal tariff rates (by exporting<br>country, as of May 9) from July onward. It estimates the total impact at -¥17 bn (of which -¥13<br>bn is in the solutions business).|The company assumes three types of impact: (1) exports from the company to the US, (2)<br>exports to the US via third countries, and (3) imports by the company's US bases from other<br>companies. It assumes a 10% tariff rate for Apr-Jun, and reciprocal tariff rates (by exporting<br>country, as of May 9) from July onward. It estimates the total impact at -¥17 bn (of which -¥13<br>bn is in the solutions business).|
|||||||||||
|**Company name**<br>Rohm|**Ticker**<br>6963.T|**Rating**<br>Neutral|**Analyst**<br>Daiki Takayama|**Sub Sector**<br>Electronic Components|**Result day**<br>5/13 (Tue)|**Company commentary (on actions to respond to tariffs)**<br>No particular comment.|**Company commentary (on actions to respond to tariffs)**<br>No particular comment.|**Company commentary (on actions to respond to tariffs)**<br>No particular comment.|**Company commentary (on actions to respond to tariffs)**<br>No particular comment.|
|Kyocera|6971.T|Buy|Daiki Takayama|Electronic Components|5/14 (Wed)|The impact on core components and electronic parts is small as the company can address via<br>pass-through to prices, but some impact will remain, such as on printers shipped from Vietnam to<br>the US, and on tools procured from China by US bases.|The impact on core components and electronic parts is small as the company can address via<br>pass-through to prices, but some impact will remain, such as on printers shipped from Vietnam to<br>the US, and on tools procured from China by US bases.|The impact on core components and electronic parts is small as the company can address via<br>pass-through to prices, but some impact will remain, such as on printers shipped from Vietnam to<br>the US, and on tools procured from China by US bases.|The impact on core components and electronic parts is small as the company can address via<br>pass-through to prices, but some impact will remain, such as on printers shipped from Vietnam to<br>the US, and on tools procured from China by US bases.|
|||||||||||
|**Company name**<br>Rohm|**Ticker**<br>6963.T|**Rating**<br>Neutral|**Analyst**<br>Daiki Takayama|**Sub Sector**<br>Electronic Components|**FY25**<br>**USD/JPY**<br>**assumption**<br>140|**Company commentary (on FY25 business assumptions besides tariffs, and changes in**<br>**medium/long-term strategy)**|**FY24**<br>**capex**<br>**(¥ bn)**|**FY25**<br>**capex plan**<br>** (¥ bn)**|**Capex**<br>**growth**<br>**yoy**|
|**Company name**<br>Rohm|**Ticker**<br>6963.T|**Rating**<br>Neutral|**Analyst**<br>Daiki Takayama|**Sub Sector**<br>Electronic Components|**FY25**<br>**USD/JPY**<br>**assumption**<br>140|Including the impact of yen appreciation, the company expects sales to decline for applications<br>other than games. It aims to achieve profitability through cost reductions. The company plans to<br>announce its medium-term plan at its interim results in November. The company aims to achieve<br>a highly profitable structure that can achieve a 20% operating margin even with sales of ¥500 bn.|133.0|85.0|-36%|
|Kyocera|6971.T|Buy|Daiki Takayama|Electronic Components|135|<br>The company reaffirmed (1) share buybacks and reduction of strategic shareholdings, (2) steady<br>moves toward profitability at KAVX and organic packaging, and (3) business transfers/withdrawals<br>(¥200 bn). It officially announced a ¥200 bn share buyback (c.9.67% of outstanding shares). It<br>said it will reduce strategic shareholdings by c.¥500 bn by FY3/27, and explicitly stated a target of<br>less than 20% of equity thereafter (= we estimate a further reduction of c.¥500 bn).|141.9|180.0|27%|
|Total|||||||274.9|265.0|-4%|


Source: Company data, Goldman Sachs Global Investment Research


25 May 2025 14


Goldman Sachs Japan Export Tracker


**Exhibit 8: Machinery company commentary (Covered by Yuichiro Isayama, Takeru Adachi)**































|Company name<br>Hoshizaki Corp.|Ticker<br>6465.T|Rating<br>Buy|Analyst<br>Yuichiro Isayama|Sub Sector<br>Machinery|Result day<br>5/13 (Tue)|Company commentary (on tariff impacts)<br>While the company is still analyzing the details, it expects additional costs from tariffs on some<br>parts and finished products exported from China to the US to exceed ¥1 bn, but it expects the<br>impact on profits to be offset by cost reductions and price pass-through.|Col8|Col9|Col10|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|Daifuku Co.|6383.T|Buy|Yuichiro Isayama|Machinery|5/13 (Tue)|While some products and materials procured from outside the US will be affected by tariffs, most<br>products for the US market are manufactured in the US. Although products for semiconductor<br>production lines are exported to the US from Japan, Taiwan, and South Korea, most contracts<br>stipulate that the customer is the importer, so the tariff burden on Daifuku should be limited.|While some products and materials procured from outside the US will be affected by tariffs, most<br>products for the US market are manufactured in the US. Although products for semiconductor<br>production lines are exported to the US from Japan, Taiwan, and South Korea, most contracts<br>stipulate that the customer is the importer, so the tariff burden on Daifuku should be limited.|While some products and materials procured from outside the US will be affected by tariffs, most<br>products for the US market are manufactured in the US. Although products for semiconductor<br>production lines are exported to the US from Japan, Taiwan, and South Korea, most contracts<br>stipulate that the customer is the importer, so the tariff burden on Daifuku should be limited.|While some products and materials procured from outside the US will be affected by tariffs, most<br>products for the US market are manufactured in the US. Although products for semiconductor<br>production lines are exported to the US from Japan, Taiwan, and South Korea, most contracts<br>stipulate that the customer is the importer, so the tariff burden on Daifuku should be limited.|
|CKD Corp.|6407.T|Buy|Yuichiro Isayama|Machinery|5/13 (Tue)|The impact of tariffs should be very small.|The impact of tariffs should be very small.|The impact of tariffs should be very small.|The impact of tariffs should be very small.|
|SMC|6273.T|Buy|Yuichiro Isayama|Machinery|5/14 (Wed)|The company commented that it expects a ¥6.2 bn impact on gross profit from the direct impact<br>of tariffs and a ¥3.8 bn impact on gross profit from the indirect impact in FY3/26.|The company commented that it expects a ¥6.2 bn impact on gross profit from the direct impact<br>of tariffs and a ¥3.8 bn impact on gross profit from the indirect impact in FY3/26.|The company commented that it expects a ¥6.2 bn impact on gross profit from the direct impact<br>of tariffs and a ¥3.8 bn impact on gross profit from the indirect impact in FY3/26.|The company commented that it expects a ¥6.2 bn impact on gross profit from the direct impact<br>of tariffs and a ¥3.8 bn impact on gross profit from the indirect impact in FY3/26.|
|Harmonic Drive Sysmtems Inc.|6324.T|Buy|Yuichiro Isayama|Machinery|5/14 (Wed)|<br>N/A|<br>N/A|<br>N/A|<br>N/A|
|Japan Material|6055.T|Buy|Takeru Adachi|Machinery|5/13 (Tue)|While the impact of tariffs is still unclear, and the possibility of customers delaying investment<br>decisions cannot be ruled out, the company's view that semiconductor investment will continue in<br>the long term remains unchanged.|While the impact of tariffs is still unclear, and the possibility of customers delaying investment<br>decisions cannot be ruled out, the company's view that semiconductor investment will continue in<br>the long term remains unchanged.|While the impact of tariffs is still unclear, and the possibility of customers delaying investment<br>decisions cannot be ruled out, the company's view that semiconductor investment will continue in<br>the long term remains unchanged.|While the impact of tariffs is still unclear, and the possibility of customers delaying investment<br>decisions cannot be ruled out, the company's view that semiconductor investment will continue in<br>the long term remains unchanged.|
|Organo Corp.|6368.T|Buy|Takeru Adachi|Machinery|5/13 (Tue)|While some customers are considering postponing or suspending investment plans, there are also<br>moves to consider investment plans that exceed expectations, including for advanced<br>semiconductors. Organo's business is mainly based on a "local production for local consumption"<br>model, with cross-border transactions accounting for less than 10% of sales and less than 20% of<br>purchases, so the impact on costs is minor. In most cases, selling prices are determined after<br>factoring in these costs.|While some customers are considering postponing or suspending investment plans, there are also<br>moves to consider investment plans that exceed expectations, including for advanced<br>semiconductors. Organo's business is mainly based on a "local production for local consumption"<br>model, with cross-border transactions accounting for less than 10% of sales and less than 20% of<br>purchases, so the impact on costs is minor. In most cases, selling prices are determined after<br>factoring in these costs.|While some customers are considering postponing or suspending investment plans, there are also<br>moves to consider investment plans that exceed expectations, including for advanced<br>semiconductors. Organo's business is mainly based on a "local production for local consumption"<br>model, with cross-border transactions accounting for less than 10% of sales and less than 20% of<br>purchases, so the impact on costs is minor. In most cases, selling prices are determined after<br>factoring in these costs.|While some customers are considering postponing or suspending investment plans, there are also<br>moves to consider investment plans that exceed expectations, including for advanced<br>semiconductors. Organo's business is mainly based on a "local production for local consumption"<br>model, with cross-border transactions accounting for less than 10% of sales and less than 20% of<br>purchases, so the impact on costs is minor. In most cases, selling prices are determined after<br>factoring in these costs.|
|Nomura Micro Science|6254.T|Neutral|Takeru Adachi|Machinery|5/15 (Thu)|N/A|N/A|N/A|N/A|
|||||||||||
|**Company name**<br>Hoshizaki Corp.|**Ticker**<br>6465.T|**Rating**<br>Buy|**Analyst**<br>Yuichiro Isayama|**Sub Sector**<br>Machinery|**Result day**<br>5/13 (Tue)|**Company commentary (on actions to respond to tariffs)**<br>The company plans to offset the impact on profits through cost reductions and price pass-<br>through.|**Company commentary (on actions to respond to tariffs)**<br>The company plans to offset the impact on profits through cost reductions and price pass-<br>through.|**Company commentary (on actions to respond to tariffs)**<br>The company plans to offset the impact on profits through cost reductions and price pass-<br>through.|**Company commentary (on actions to respond to tariffs)**<br>The company plans to offset the impact on profits through cost reductions and price pass-<br>through.|
|Daifuku Co.|6383.T|Buy|Yuichiro Isayama|Machinery|5/13 (Tue)|While the company exports products for semiconductor production lines, which are expected to be<br>affected, from Japan, Taiwan, and South Korea to the US, most contracts stipulate that the<br>customer is the importer, so the company believes its tariff burden is limited.|While the company exports products for semiconductor production lines, which are expected to be<br>affected, from Japan, Taiwan, and South Korea to the US, most contracts stipulate that the<br>customer is the importer, so the company believes its tariff burden is limited.|While the company exports products for semiconductor production lines, which are expected to be<br>affected, from Japan, Taiwan, and South Korea to the US, most contracts stipulate that the<br>customer is the importer, so the company believes its tariff burden is limited.|While the company exports products for semiconductor production lines, which are expected to be<br>affected, from Japan, Taiwan, and South Korea to the US, most contracts stipulate that the<br>customer is the importer, so the company believes its tariff burden is limited.|
|CKD Corp.|6407.T|Buy|Yuichiro Isayama|Machinery|5/13 (Tue)|N/A|N/A|N/A|N/A|
|SMC|6273.T|Buy|Yuichiro Isayama|Machinery|5/14 (Wed)|N/A|N/A|N/A|N/A|
|Harmonic Drive Sysmtems Inc.|6324.T|Buy|Yuichiro Isayama|Machinery|5/14 (Wed)|N/A|N/A|N/A|N/A|
|Japan Material|6055.T|Buy|Takeru Adachi|Machinery|5/13 (Tue)|The company intends to pass on price increases.|The company intends to pass on price increases.|The company intends to pass on price increases.|The company intends to pass on price increases.|
|Organo Corp.|6368.T|Buy|Takeru Adachi|Machinery|5/13 (Tue)|The company said that the impact is limited, as shipping costs and tariffs are often factored into<br>selling prices in advance.|The company said that the impact is limited, as shipping costs and tariffs are often factored into<br>selling prices in advance.|The company said that the impact is limited, as shipping costs and tariffs are often factored into<br>selling prices in advance.|The company said that the impact is limited, as shipping costs and tariffs are often factored into<br>selling prices in advance.|
|Nomura Micro Science|6254.T|Neutral|Takeru Adachi|Machinery|5/15 (Thu)|N/A|N/A|N/A|N/A|
|||||||||||
|**Company name**<br>Hoshizaki Corp.|**Ticker**<br>6465.T|**Rating**<br>Buy|**Analyst**<br>Yuichiro Isayama|**Sub Sector**<br>Machinery|**FY25**<br>**USD/JPY**<br>**assumption**<br>148|**Company commentary (on FY25 business assumptions besides tariffs, and changes in**<br>**medium/long-term strategy)**<br>No particular change|**FY24 capex**<br>**(¥ bn)**<br>13.9|**FY25 capex**<br>**plan (¥ bn)**<br>N/A|**Capex growth**<br>**yoy**<br>-|
|Daifuku Co.|6383.T|Buy|Yuichiro Isayama|Machinery|148|No particular change|18.2|39.5|117%|
|CKD Corp.|6407.T|Buy|Yuichiro Isayama|Machinery|145|No particular change|5.0|6.0|19%|
|SMC|6273.T|Buy|Yuichiro Isayama|Machinery|141|No particular change|107.8|180.0|67%|
|Harmonic Drive Sysmtems Inc.|6324.T|Buy|Yuichiro Isayama|Machinery|140|No particular change|5.0|N/A|-|
|Japan Material|6055.T|Buy|Takeru Adachi|Machinery|-|While the specific impact is unclear, the company has set guidance at a level it believes it can<br>achieve even if there is an impact from tariffs.|-|-|-|
|Organo Corp.|6368.T|Buy|Takeru Adachi|Machinery|-|Guidance reflects currently known investment postponements/suspensions. The company will<br>monitor new semiconductor projects, as the timing and scale could fluctuate.|2.8|3.5|25%|
|Nomura Micro Science|6254.T|Neutral|Takeru Adachi|Machinery|-|N/A|-|-|-|
|total|||||||133.8|229.0|71%|


Source: Company data, Goldman Sachs Global Investment Research


25 May 2025 15


Goldman Sachs Japan Export Tracker


**Exhibit 9: Auto company commentary (Covered by Kota Yuzawa)**

























































|Company name<br>Nifco Inc.|Ticker<br>7988.T|Rating<br>Neutral|Analyst<br>Kota Yuzawa|Sub Sector<br>Auto|Result day<br>5/12 (Mon)|Company commentary (on tariff impacts)<br>The impact of tariffs is difficult to calculate at this time.|Col8|Col9|Col10|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|Mazda Motor|7261.T|Neutral|Kota Yuzawa|Auto|5/12 (Mon)|As to short-term impact, the company said the negative impact on operating profits from tariffs in<br>April alone was around ¥10 bn. However, we believe the impact from May onward is likely to be<br>somewhat larger, as the company temporarily suspended shipments from its Mexican plant to the<br>US market in April.|As to short-term impact, the company said the negative impact on operating profits from tariffs in<br>April alone was around ¥10 bn. However, we believe the impact from May onward is likely to be<br>somewhat larger, as the company temporarily suspended shipments from its Mexican plant to the<br>US market in April.|As to short-term impact, the company said the negative impact on operating profits from tariffs in<br>April alone was around ¥10 bn. However, we believe the impact from May onward is likely to be<br>somewhat larger, as the company temporarily suspended shipments from its Mexican plant to the<br>US market in April.|As to short-term impact, the company said the negative impact on operating profits from tariffs in<br>April alone was around ¥10 bn. However, we believe the impact from May onward is likely to be<br>somewhat larger, as the company temporarily suspended shipments from its Mexican plant to the<br>US market in April.|
|Suzuki Motor|7269.T|Buy|Kota Yuzawa|Auto|5/12 (Mon)|Guidance incorporates -¥40 bn as a business risk. Of this, -¥20 bn is direct impact from US tariffs<br>(motorcycles and marine business), and the remaining -¥20 bn reflects downside risks such as an<br>economic slowdown.|Guidance incorporates -¥40 bn as a business risk. Of this, -¥20 bn is direct impact from US tariffs<br>(motorcycles and marine business), and the remaining -¥20 bn reflects downside risks such as an<br>economic slowdown.|Guidance incorporates -¥40 bn as a business risk. Of this, -¥20 bn is direct impact from US tariffs<br>(motorcycles and marine business), and the remaining -¥20 bn reflects downside risks such as an<br>economic slowdown.|Guidance incorporates -¥40 bn as a business risk. Of this, -¥20 bn is direct impact from US tariffs<br>(motorcycles and marine business), and the remaining -¥20 bn reflects downside risks such as an<br>economic slowdown.|
|TOYO TIRE|5105.T|Buy|Kota Yuzawa|Auto|5/13 (Tue)|The company refrained from disclosing any figures regarding the impact of tariffs.|The company refrained from disclosing any figures regarding the impact of tariffs.|The company refrained from disclosing any figures regarding the impact of tariffs.|The company refrained from disclosing any figures regarding the impact of tariffs.|
|Yamaha Motor|7272.T|Buy|Kota Yuzawa|Auto|5/13 (Tue)|The company disclosed for the first time it expects US tariffs will have a negative impact of ¥50 bn<br>on operating profits (¥27 bn in the marine business, ¥9 bn in the motorcycle business, and ¥14<br>bn in other parts). This estimate takes into account reciprocal tariffs and steel/aluminum tariffs,<br>but does not consider (1) the tariff reductions between China and the US announced on May 12,<br>or (2) the indirect impact of tariffs, such as volume declines.|The company disclosed for the first time it expects US tariffs will have a negative impact of ¥50 bn<br>on operating profits (¥27 bn in the marine business, ¥9 bn in the motorcycle business, and ¥14<br>bn in other parts). This estimate takes into account reciprocal tariffs and steel/aluminum tariffs,<br>but does not consider (1) the tariff reductions between China and the US announced on May 12,<br>or (2) the indirect impact of tariffs, such as volume declines.|The company disclosed for the first time it expects US tariffs will have a negative impact of ¥50 bn<br>on operating profits (¥27 bn in the marine business, ¥9 bn in the motorcycle business, and ¥14<br>bn in other parts). This estimate takes into account reciprocal tariffs and steel/aluminum tariffs,<br>but does not consider (1) the tariff reductions between China and the US announced on May 12,<br>or (2) the indirect impact of tariffs, such as volume declines.|The company disclosed for the first time it expects US tariffs will have a negative impact of ¥50 bn<br>on operating profits (¥27 bn in the marine business, ¥9 bn in the motorcycle business, and ¥14<br>bn in other parts). This estimate takes into account reciprocal tariffs and steel/aluminum tariffs,<br>but does not consider (1) the tariff reductions between China and the US announced on May 12,<br>or (2) the indirect impact of tariffs, such as volume declines.|
|GS Yuasa Corp.|6674.T|Sell|Kota Yuzawa|Auto|5/13 (Tue)|N/A|N/A|N/A|N/A|
|Unipres Corp.|5949.T|Sell|Kota Yuzawa|Auto|5/13 (Tue)|N/A|N/A|N/A|N/A|
|Nissan Motor|7201.T|Neutral|Kota Yuzawa|Auto|5/13 (Tue)|The company newly announced that the gross impact of US tariffs in FY3/26 may be up to -¥450<br>bn. Of this, a negative impact of more than ¥100 bn is expected to emerge in Apr-Jun, and<br>quarterly operating profit guidance is for -¥200 bn.|The company newly announced that the gross impact of US tariffs in FY3/26 may be up to -¥450<br>bn. Of this, a negative impact of more than ¥100 bn is expected to emerge in Apr-Jun, and<br>quarterly operating profit guidance is for -¥200 bn.|The company newly announced that the gross impact of US tariffs in FY3/26 may be up to -¥450<br>bn. Of this, a negative impact of more than ¥100 bn is expected to emerge in Apr-Jun, and<br>quarterly operating profit guidance is for -¥200 bn.|The company newly announced that the gross impact of US tariffs in FY3/26 may be up to -¥450<br>bn. Of this, a negative impact of more than ¥100 bn is expected to emerge in Apr-Jun, and<br>quarterly operating profit guidance is for -¥200 bn.|
|Honda Motor|7267.T|Buy|Kota Yuzawa|Auto|5/13 (Tue)|<br>The company expects the impact of tariffs will be -¥650 bn on a gross basis, but it plans to<br>partially offset this with ¥200 bn in mitigating efforts. This breaks down as -¥300 bn from the<br>25% tariff on vehicles produced outside the US, -¥220 bn from the 25% tariff on parts, and -¥130<br>bn from reciprocal tariffs on motorcycles, etc. We believe the impact from parts tariffs is<br>somewhat overstated, as it does not assume any exemptions under USMCA.|<br>The company expects the impact of tariffs will be -¥650 bn on a gross basis, but it plans to<br>partially offset this with ¥200 bn in mitigating efforts. This breaks down as -¥300 bn from the<br>25% tariff on vehicles produced outside the US, -¥220 bn from the 25% tariff on parts, and -¥130<br>bn from reciprocal tariffs on motorcycles, etc. We believe the impact from parts tariffs is<br>somewhat overstated, as it does not assume any exemptions under USMCA.|<br>The company expects the impact of tariffs will be -¥650 bn on a gross basis, but it plans to<br>partially offset this with ¥200 bn in mitigating efforts. This breaks down as -¥300 bn from the<br>25% tariff on vehicles produced outside the US, -¥220 bn from the 25% tariff on parts, and -¥130<br>bn from reciprocal tariffs on motorcycles, etc. We believe the impact from parts tariffs is<br>somewhat overstated, as it does not assume any exemptions under USMCA.|<br>The company expects the impact of tariffs will be -¥650 bn on a gross basis, but it plans to<br>partially offset this with ¥200 bn in mitigating efforts. This breaks down as -¥300 bn from the<br>25% tariff on vehicles produced outside the US, -¥220 bn from the 25% tariff on parts, and -¥130<br>bn from reciprocal tariffs on motorcycles, etc. We believe the impact from parts tariffs is<br>somewhat overstated, as it does not assume any exemptions under USMCA.|
|Subaru Corp.|7270.T|Neutral|Kota Yuzawa|Auto|5/14 (Wed)|The company estimates the gross impact of tariffs at US$2.5 bn (c.¥360 bn at the operating profit<br>level) in FY3/26. Of this, 75% relates to finished vehicle exports and 25% to parts. This is a<br>pessimistic scenario assuming that the additional 25% tariff on automobiles/auto parts will be in<br>effect for the full year, and does not incorporate any exemptions related to USMCA.|The company estimates the gross impact of tariffs at US$2.5 bn (c.¥360 bn at the operating profit<br>level) in FY3/26. Of this, 75% relates to finished vehicle exports and 25% to parts. This is a<br>pessimistic scenario assuming that the additional 25% tariff on automobiles/auto parts will be in<br>effect for the full year, and does not incorporate any exemptions related to USMCA.|The company estimates the gross impact of tariffs at US$2.5 bn (c.¥360 bn at the operating profit<br>level) in FY3/26. Of this, 75% relates to finished vehicle exports and 25% to parts. This is a<br>pessimistic scenario assuming that the additional 25% tariff on automobiles/auto parts will be in<br>effect for the full year, and does not incorporate any exemptions related to USMCA.|The company estimates the gross impact of tariffs at US$2.5 bn (c.¥360 bn at the operating profit<br>level) in FY3/26. Of this, 75% relates to finished vehicle exports and 25% to parts. This is a<br>pessimistic scenario assuming that the additional 25% tariff on automobiles/auto parts will be in<br>effect for the full year, and does not incorporate any exemptions related to USMCA.|
|Isuzu Motors|7202.T|Buy|Kota Yuzawa|Auto|5/14 (Wed)|The company estimates the gross impact of tariffs at ¥20 bn.|The company estimates the gross impact of tariffs at ¥20 bn.|The company estimates the gross impact of tariffs at ¥20 bn.|The company estimates the gross impact of tariffs at ¥20 bn.|
|Bridgestone|5108.T|Buy|Kota Yuzawa|Auto|5/15 (Thu)|The company estimates the direct impact of US tariffs, such as higher costs for raw materials/US<br>tire imports, at c.¥45 bn.|The company estimates the direct impact of US tariffs, such as higher costs for raw materials/US<br>tire imports, at c.¥45 bn.|The company estimates the direct impact of US tariffs, such as higher costs for raw materials/US<br>tire imports, at c.¥45 bn.|The company estimates the direct impact of US tariffs, such as higher costs for raw materials/US<br>tire imports, at c.¥45 bn.|
|Sumitomo Rubber Industries|5110.T|Buy|Kota Yuzawa|Auto|5/15 (Thu)|<br>The company estimates the negative impact of US tariffs at -¥18 bn.|<br>The company estimates the negative impact of US tariffs at -¥18 bn.|<br>The company estimates the negative impact of US tariffs at -¥18 bn.|<br>The company estimates the negative impact of US tariffs at -¥18 bn.|
|||||||||||
|**Company name**<br>Nifco Inc.|**Ticker**<br>7988.T|**Rating**<br>Neutral|**Analyst**<br>Kota Yuzawa|**Sub Sector**<br>Auto|**Result day**<br>5/12 (Mon)|**Company commentary (on actions to respond to tariffs)**<br>The impact of tariffs is difficult to calculate at this time.|**Company commentary (on actions to respond to tariffs)**<br>The impact of tariffs is difficult to calculate at this time.|**Company commentary (on actions to respond to tariffs)**<br>The impact of tariffs is difficult to calculate at this time.|**Company commentary (on actions to respond to tariffs)**<br>The impact of tariffs is difficult to calculate at this time.|
|Mazda Motor|7261.T|Neutral|Kota Yuzawa|Auto|5/12 (Mon)|The company plans to focus on reducing costs by ¥200 bn as something it can control itself amid<br>the uncertain environment.|The company plans to focus on reducing costs by ¥200 bn as something it can control itself amid<br>the uncertain environment.|The company plans to focus on reducing costs by ¥200 bn as something it can control itself amid<br>the uncertain environment.|The company plans to focus on reducing costs by ¥200 bn as something it can control itself amid<br>the uncertain environment.|
|Suzuki Motor|7269.T|Buy|Kota Yuzawa|Auto|5/12 (Mon)|N/A|N/A|N/A|N/A|
|TOYO TIRE|5105.T|Buy|Kota Yuzawa|Auto|5/13 (Tue)|The company said that it can absorb the impact of tariffs through its own efforts. This is based on<br>further improving the product mix by maximizing production/sales of WLTRs, which are<br>manufactured locally in the US, and at the same time implementing internal efforts such as cost<br>reductions. The company did not comment on specific pricing strategies related to tariffs.|The company said that it can absorb the impact of tariffs through its own efforts. This is based on<br>further improving the product mix by maximizing production/sales of WLTRs, which are<br>manufactured locally in the US, and at the same time implementing internal efforts such as cost<br>reductions. The company did not comment on specific pricing strategies related to tariffs.|The company said that it can absorb the impact of tariffs through its own efforts. This is based on<br>further improving the product mix by maximizing production/sales of WLTRs, which are<br>manufactured locally in the US, and at the same time implementing internal efforts such as cost<br>reductions. The company did not comment on specific pricing strategies related to tariffs.|The company said that it can absorb the impact of tariffs through its own efforts. This is based on<br>further improving the product mix by maximizing production/sales of WLTRs, which are<br>manufactured locally in the US, and at the same time implementing internal efforts such as cost<br>reductions. The company did not comment on specific pricing strategies related to tariffs.|
|Yamaha Motor|7272.T|Buy|Kota Yuzawa|Auto|5/13 (Tue)|The company commented that it will strive to minimize the impact through measures such as<br>pricing strategies, expense control, inventory and production management, and<br>production/procurement optimization.|The company commented that it will strive to minimize the impact through measures such as<br>pricing strategies, expense control, inventory and production management, and<br>production/procurement optimization.|The company commented that it will strive to minimize the impact through measures such as<br>pricing strategies, expense control, inventory and production management, and<br>production/procurement optimization.|The company commented that it will strive to minimize the impact through measures such as<br>pricing strategies, expense control, inventory and production management, and<br>production/procurement optimization.|
|GS Yuasa Corp.|6674.T|Sell|Kota Yuzawa|Auto|5/13 (Tue)|N/A|N/A|N/A|N/A|
|Unipres Corp.|5949.T|Sell|Kota Yuzawa|Auto|5/13 (Tue)|N/A|N/A|N/A|N/A|
|Nissan Motor|7201.T|Neutral|Kota Yuzawa|Auto|5/13 (Tue)|The company said that measures to mitigate the tariff impact by c.30% have already been<br>implemented in the April-June quarter. These measures include strengthening sales of US-made<br>models, maximizing US production, and selling products subject to tariffs in other regions.|The company said that measures to mitigate the tariff impact by c.30% have already been<br>implemented in the April-June quarter. These measures include strengthening sales of US-made<br>models, maximizing US production, and selling products subject to tariffs in other regions.|The company said that measures to mitigate the tariff impact by c.30% have already been<br>implemented in the April-June quarter. These measures include strengthening sales of US-made<br>models, maximizing US production, and selling products subject to tariffs in other regions.|The company said that measures to mitigate the tariff impact by c.30% have already been<br>implemented in the April-June quarter. These measures include strengthening sales of US-made<br>models, maximizing US production, and selling products subject to tariffs in other regions.|
|Honda Motor|7267.T|Buy|Kota Yuzawa|Auto|5/13 (Tue)|While the company said it has not decided on any concrete countermeasures at present, we<br>presume it is considering reviewing its supply chain and pricing. In the medium term, the<br>company is studying whether it can increase US production volume by slightly over 200,000 units,<br>but has not made a final decision given the fluid US tariff policy and the impact on the supply<br>chain.|While the company said it has not decided on any concrete countermeasures at present, we<br>presume it is considering reviewing its supply chain and pricing. In the medium term, the<br>company is studying whether it can increase US production volume by slightly over 200,000 units,<br>but has not made a final decision given the fluid US tariff policy and the impact on the supply<br>chain.|While the company said it has not decided on any concrete countermeasures at present, we<br>presume it is considering reviewing its supply chain and pricing. In the medium term, the<br>company is studying whether it can increase US production volume by slightly over 200,000 units,<br>but has not made a final decision given the fluid US tariff policy and the impact on the supply<br>chain.|While the company said it has not decided on any concrete countermeasures at present, we<br>presume it is considering reviewing its supply chain and pricing. In the medium term, the<br>company is studying whether it can increase US production volume by slightly over 200,000 units,<br>but has not made a final decision given the fluid US tariff policy and the impact on the supply<br>chain.|
|Subaru Corp.|7270.T|Neutral|Kota Yuzawa|Auto|5/14 (Wed)|The company did not disclose FY3/26 operating profit guidance due to the uncertain business<br>environment, including the direction of US tariff policy. However, it said that it is considering<br>various measures to secure operating profits of ¥100 bn.|The company did not disclose FY3/26 operating profit guidance due to the uncertain business<br>environment, including the direction of US tariff policy. However, it said that it is considering<br>various measures to secure operating profits of ¥100 bn.|The company did not disclose FY3/26 operating profit guidance due to the uncertain business<br>environment, including the direction of US tariff policy. However, it said that it is considering<br>various measures to secure operating profits of ¥100 bn.|The company did not disclose FY3/26 operating profit guidance due to the uncertain business<br>environment, including the direction of US tariff policy. However, it said that it is considering<br>various measures to secure operating profits of ¥100 bn.|
|Isuzu Motors|7202.T|Buy|Kota Yuzawa|Auto|5/14 (Wed)|<br>The company said it is looking to offset ¥4 bn through mitigation measures. Guidance<br>incorporates a negative impact on profits of ¥16 bn from US tariffs.|<br>The company said it is looking to offset ¥4 bn through mitigation measures. Guidance<br>incorporates a negative impact on profits of ¥16 bn from US tariffs.|<br>The company said it is looking to offset ¥4 bn through mitigation measures. Guidance<br>incorporates a negative impact on profits of ¥16 bn from US tariffs.|<br>The company said it is looking to offset ¥4 bn through mitigation measures. Guidance<br>incorporates a negative impact on profits of ¥16 bn from US tariffs.|
|Bridgestone|5108.T|Buy|Kota Yuzawa|Auto|5/15 (Thu)|<br>While no specific actions were mentioned, our impression is that the company has already<br>prepared measures to minimize the impact.|<br>While no specific actions were mentioned, our impression is that the company has already<br>prepared measures to minimize the impact.|<br>While no specific actions were mentioned, our impression is that the company has already<br>prepared measures to minimize the impact.|<br>While no specific actions were mentioned, our impression is that the company has already<br>prepared measures to minimize the impact.|
|Sumitomo Rubber Industries|5110.T|Buy|Kota Yuzawa|Auto|5/15 (Thu)|The company said that it can absorb the impact through price increases in the US as well as<br>internal efforts.|The company said that it can absorb the impact through price increases in the US as well as<br>internal efforts.|The company said that it can absorb the impact through price increases in the US as well as<br>internal efforts.|The company said that it can absorb the impact through price increases in the US as well as<br>internal efforts.|
|||||||||||
|**Company name**<br>Nifco Inc.|**Ticker**<br>7988.T|**Rating**<br>Neutral|**Analyst**<br>Kota Yuzawa|**Sub Sector**<br>Auto|**FY25**<br>**USD/JPY**<br>**assumption**<br>145|**Company commentary (on FY25 business assumptions besides tariffs, and changes in**<br>**medium/long-term strategy)**<br>While the impact of tariffs is not reflected in guidance, we believe a certain degree of downside<br>risk to vehicle production volume is factored in, given the forecast for a decline in sales.|**FY24**<br>**capex**<br>**(¥ bn)**<br>19.7|**FY25 capex**<br>**plan (¥ bn)**<br>21.0|**Capex**<br>**growth**<br>**yoy**<br>7%|
|Mazda Motor|7261.T|Neutral|Kota Yuzawa|Auto|N/A|FY3/26 operating profit guidance was not disclosed, due to the uncertain business environment,<br>including the outlook for US government tariff policy.|148.4|N/A|N/A|
|Suzuki Motor|7269.T|Buy|Kota Yuzawa|Auto|140|FY3/26 DPS guidance is ¥45, up from ¥41 in FY3/25. The payout ratio is 27.1% and the dividend<br>on equity (DOE) is c.3% (based on guidance). The company has adopted DOE as a metric suited<br>to a progressive dividend policy.|361.8|380.0|5%|
|TOYO TIRE|5105.T|Buy|Kota Yuzawa|Auto|146|Full-year operating profit guidance is ¥85 bn, unchanged from the previous forecast.|45.3|35.6|-21%|
|Yamaha Motor|7272.T|Buy|Kota Yuzawa|Auto|145|Full-year guidance is unchanged from the previous forecast.|126.6|140.0|11%|
|GS Yuasa Corp.|6674.T|Sell|Kota Yuzawa|Auto|145|N/A|58.8|65.0|11%|
|Unipres Corp.|5949.T|Sell|Kota Yuzawa|Auto|N/A|N/A|N/A|N/A|N/A|
|Nissan Motor|7201.T|Neutral|Kota Yuzawa|Auto|135|FY3/26 guidance assumes operating profits will break even, not incorporating the impact of<br>tariffs. The company did not disclose net profit guidance, as it is still calculating the cost of<br>structural reforms. As in the previous fiscal year, it does not plan to pay a dividend in FY3/26.|577.3|605.0|5%|
|Honda Motor|7267.T|Buy|Kota Yuzawa|Auto|145|Despite guidance for a significant decline in profits, the company adopted a new dividend policy of<br>a 3% DOE, and plans to increase its dividend from ¥68 in FY3/25 to ¥70 in FY3/26. The company<br>also said there has been no discussion on making any changes to its ongoing ¥1.1 tn share|537.4|620.0|15%|
|Subaru Corp.|7270.T|Neutral|Kota Yuzawa|Auto|N/A|<br>The company announced a ¥40 bn investment to produce the Forester at its SIA plant in the US<br>(this model is currently produced in Japan). It plans to steadily rebuild its US-rooted business<br>model over the near/medium term.|176.1|N/A|N/A|
|Isuzu Motors|7202.T|Buy|Kota Yuzawa|Auto|140|The company plans a DPS of ¥92 for FY3/26 (same as FY3/25), implying a stable dividend policy<br>despite the guidance for profits to decline. The company sees FY3/26 profit guidance as a<br>minimum, and aims for higher profits through sales expansion in North America and Thailand.|142.9|160.0|12%|
|Bridgestone|5108.T|Buy|Kota Yuzawa|Auto|145|FY12/25 adjusted operating profit guidance is unchanged at ¥505 bn. The company noted that<br>the risk of a US recession triggered by tariff policy is an additional risk factor. While not factored<br>into guidance, the company is mindful of a potential indirect negative impact on profits of c.¥20|389.8|406.0|4%|
|Sumitomo Rubber Industries|5110.T|Buy|Kota Yuzawa|Auto|144|<br>Full-year business profit guidance is unchanged at ¥95 bn. The company cut FY12/25 sales<br>volume guidance by 2% to 100.47 mn units, from 102.31 mn, reflecting a negative impact of tire<br>price hikes on sales volume, particularly in the North America segment.|62.2|74.2|19%|
|Total|||||||2321.8|2506.8|8%|


Source: Company data, Goldman Sachs Global Investment Research


25 May 2025 16


Goldman Sachs Japan Export Tracker


**Exhibit 10: Industrial electronics company commentary (Covered by Ryo Harada)**





























|Company name|Ticker|Rating|Analyst|Sub Sector|Result day|Company commentary (on tariff impacts)|Col8|Col9|Col10|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|Fujikura|5803.T|Buy|Ryo Harada|Industrial Electronics|5/13 (Tue)|Guidance incorporates reciprocal tariffs. While the company looks to absorb the impact through<br>price pass-through and supply chain reviews, etc., in principle, it has conservatively factored in a<br>¥5.6 bn impact from tariffs, mainly on information and communications (optical products).|Guidance incorporates reciprocal tariffs. While the company looks to absorb the impact through<br>price pass-through and supply chain reviews, etc., in principle, it has conservatively factored in a<br>¥5.6 bn impact from tariffs, mainly on information and communications (optical products).|Guidance incorporates reciprocal tariffs. While the company looks to absorb the impact through<br>price pass-through and supply chain reviews, etc., in principle, it has conservatively factored in a<br>¥5.6 bn impact from tariffs, mainly on information and communications (optical products).|Guidance incorporates reciprocal tariffs. While the company looks to absorb the impact through<br>price pass-through and supply chain reviews, etc., in principle, it has conservatively factored in a<br>¥5.6 bn impact from tariffs, mainly on information and communications (optical products).|
|Furukawa Electric|5801.T|Sell|Ryo Harada|Industrial Electronics|5/13 (Tue)|<br>The company did not reflect the impact of tariffs in its guidance, saying it is difficult to predict. It<br>also did not mention the estimated impact of tariffs at the results briefing.|<br>The company did not reflect the impact of tariffs in its guidance, saying it is difficult to predict. It<br>also did not mention the estimated impact of tariffs at the results briefing.|<br>The company did not reflect the impact of tariffs in its guidance, saying it is difficult to predict. It<br>also did not mention the estimated impact of tariffs at the results briefing.|<br>The company did not reflect the impact of tariffs in its guidance, saying it is difficult to predict. It<br>also did not mention the estimated impact of tariffs at the results briefing.|
|SWCC|5805.T|Buy|Ryo Harada|Industrial Electronics|5/13 (Tue)|After carefully assessing the impact of tariffs, the company determined the impact is likely to be<br>limited and did not reflect it in its guidance. However, it mentioned the possibility of some impact<br>from tariffs at acquired company TOTOKU.|After carefully assessing the impact of tariffs, the company determined the impact is likely to be<br>limited and did not reflect it in its guidance. However, it mentioned the possibility of some impact<br>from tariffs at acquired company TOTOKU.|After carefully assessing the impact of tariffs, the company determined the impact is likely to be<br>limited and did not reflect it in its guidance. However, it mentioned the possibility of some impact<br>from tariffs at acquired company TOTOKU.|After carefully assessing the impact of tariffs, the company determined the impact is likely to be<br>limited and did not reflect it in its guidance. However, it mentioned the possibility of some impact<br>from tariffs at acquired company TOTOKU.|
|Sumitomo Electric Industries|5802.T|Neutral|Ryo Harada|Industrial Electronics|5/13 (Tue)|Guidance incorporates reciprocal tariffs. The company assumes a gross impact of ¥100 bn and a<br>net impact of ¥40 bn after countermeasures, and has factored this into guidance. It disclosed the<br>detailed impact of tariffs for each segment, including for 1H and 2H (the ¥40 bn impact breaks<br>down as follows: environment & energy: none; information & communications: ¥3 bn in 1H, ¥1<br>bn in 2H, ¥4 bn for the full year; automotive: ¥21 bn in 1H, ¥12 bn in 2H, ¥33 bn for the full<br>year; electronics: ¥1 bn in 1H, ¥1 bn in 2H, ¥2 bn for the full year; industrial materials: ¥1 bn in<br>1H, none in 2H, ¥1 bn for the full year). The indirect impact of the economic downturn is factored<br>in based on the assumption that auto production volume will decline 10%.|Guidance incorporates reciprocal tariffs. The company assumes a gross impact of ¥100 bn and a<br>net impact of ¥40 bn after countermeasures, and has factored this into guidance. It disclosed the<br>detailed impact of tariffs for each segment, including for 1H and 2H (the ¥40 bn impact breaks<br>down as follows: environment & energy: none; information & communications: ¥3 bn in 1H, ¥1<br>bn in 2H, ¥4 bn for the full year; automotive: ¥21 bn in 1H, ¥12 bn in 2H, ¥33 bn for the full<br>year; electronics: ¥1 bn in 1H, ¥1 bn in 2H, ¥2 bn for the full year; industrial materials: ¥1 bn in<br>1H, none in 2H, ¥1 bn for the full year). The indirect impact of the economic downturn is factored<br>in based on the assumption that auto production volume will decline 10%.|Guidance incorporates reciprocal tariffs. The company assumes a gross impact of ¥100 bn and a<br>net impact of ¥40 bn after countermeasures, and has factored this into guidance. It disclosed the<br>detailed impact of tariffs for each segment, including for 1H and 2H (the ¥40 bn impact breaks<br>down as follows: environment & energy: none; information & communications: ¥3 bn in 1H, ¥1<br>bn in 2H, ¥4 bn for the full year; automotive: ¥21 bn in 1H, ¥12 bn in 2H, ¥33 bn for the full<br>year; electronics: ¥1 bn in 1H, ¥1 bn in 2H, ¥2 bn for the full year; industrial materials: ¥1 bn in<br>1H, none in 2H, ¥1 bn for the full year). The indirect impact of the economic downturn is factored<br>in based on the assumption that auto production volume will decline 10%.|Guidance incorporates reciprocal tariffs. The company assumes a gross impact of ¥100 bn and a<br>net impact of ¥40 bn after countermeasures, and has factored this into guidance. It disclosed the<br>detailed impact of tariffs for each segment, including for 1H and 2H (the ¥40 bn impact breaks<br>down as follows: environment & energy: none; information & communications: ¥3 bn in 1H, ¥1<br>bn in 2H, ¥4 bn for the full year; automotive: ¥21 bn in 1H, ¥12 bn in 2H, ¥33 bn for the full<br>year; electronics: ¥1 bn in 1H, ¥1 bn in 2H, ¥2 bn for the full year; industrial materials: ¥1 bn in<br>1H, none in 2H, ¥1 bn for the full year). The indirect impact of the economic downturn is factored<br>in based on the assumption that auto production volume will decline 10%.|
|Meidensha|6508.T|Neutral|Ryo Harada|Industrial Electronics|5/13 (Tue)|<br>The company's official comment is that it has not factored in the impact of tariffs, as it is limited.<br>However, our impression is that a considerable indirect impact is effectively included, as the<br>company's guidance is based on figures from each segment that reflect the risk of an economic<br>downturn.|<br>The company's official comment is that it has not factored in the impact of tariffs, as it is limited.<br>However, our impression is that a considerable indirect impact is effectively included, as the<br>company's guidance is based on figures from each segment that reflect the risk of an economic<br>downturn.|<br>The company's official comment is that it has not factored in the impact of tariffs, as it is limited.<br>However, our impression is that a considerable indirect impact is effectively included, as the<br>company's guidance is based on figures from each segment that reflect the risk of an economic<br>downturn.|<br>The company's official comment is that it has not factored in the impact of tariffs, as it is limited.<br>However, our impression is that a considerable indirect impact is effectively included, as the<br>company's guidance is based on figures from each segment that reflect the risk of an economic<br>downturn.|
|||||||||||
|**Company name**|**Ticker**|**Rating**|**Analyst**|**Sub Sector**|**Result day**|**Company commentary (on actions to respond to tariffs)**|**Company commentary (on actions to respond to tariffs)**|**Company commentary (on actions to respond to tariffs)**|**Company commentary (on actions to respond to tariffs)**|
|Fujikura|5803.T|Buy|Ryo Harada|Industrial Electronics|5/13 (Tue)|For information and communications (optical products), the company will pass on price increases<br>for products with strong product appeal, but for general products, it may be difficult to pass on<br>price increases for some products. For automotive components (wire harnesses), the company<br>will essentially pass on price increases.|For information and communications (optical products), the company will pass on price increases<br>for products with strong product appeal, but for general products, it may be difficult to pass on<br>price increases for some products. For automotive components (wire harnesses), the company<br>will essentially pass on price increases.|For information and communications (optical products), the company will pass on price increases<br>for products with strong product appeal, but for general products, it may be difficult to pass on<br>price increases for some products. For automotive components (wire harnesses), the company<br>will essentially pass on price increases.|For information and communications (optical products), the company will pass on price increases<br>for products with strong product appeal, but for general products, it may be difficult to pass on<br>price increases for some products. For automotive components (wire harnesses), the company<br>will essentially pass on price increases.|
|Furukawa Electric|5801.T|Sell|Ryo Harada|Industrial Electronics|5/13 (Tue)|The company commented that it will work to pass on price increases for automotive components.|The company commented that it will work to pass on price increases for automotive components.|The company commented that it will work to pass on price increases for automotive components.|The company commented that it will work to pass on price increases for automotive components.|
|SWCC|5805.T|Buy|Ryo Harada|Industrial Electronics|5/13 (Tue)|The impact is limited, but the company will monitor the situation.|The impact is limited, but the company will monitor the situation.|The impact is limited, but the company will monitor the situation.|The impact is limited, but the company will monitor the situation.|
|Sumitomo Electric Industries|5802.T|Neutral|Ryo Harada|Industrial Electronics|5/13 (Tue)|For automotive products (wire harnesses, etc.), the company has been in discussions from an<br>early stage, but the reaction from OEMs varies. While negotiations are ongoing with all OEMs,<br>many are saying they will shoulder some of the burden. The company has received a positive<br>response regarding price pass-through from a major, large customer. Taking this into account,<br>the company will continue negotiations with other customers.|For automotive products (wire harnesses, etc.), the company has been in discussions from an<br>early stage, but the reaction from OEMs varies. While negotiations are ongoing with all OEMs,<br>many are saying they will shoulder some of the burden. The company has received a positive<br>response regarding price pass-through from a major, large customer. Taking this into account,<br>the company will continue negotiations with other customers.|For automotive products (wire harnesses, etc.), the company has been in discussions from an<br>early stage, but the reaction from OEMs varies. While negotiations are ongoing with all OEMs,<br>many are saying they will shoulder some of the burden. The company has received a positive<br>response regarding price pass-through from a major, large customer. Taking this into account,<br>the company will continue negotiations with other customers.|For automotive products (wire harnesses, etc.), the company has been in discussions from an<br>early stage, but the reaction from OEMs varies. While negotiations are ongoing with all OEMs,<br>many are saying they will shoulder some of the burden. The company has received a positive<br>response regarding price pass-through from a major, large customer. Taking this into account,<br>the company will continue negotiations with other customers.|
|Meidensha|6508.T|Neutral|Ryo Harada|Industrial Electronics|5/13 (Tue)|N/A|N/A|N/A|N/A|
|||||||||||
|**Company name**|**Ticker**|**Rating**|**Analyst**|**Sub Sector**|**FY25**<br>**USD/JPY**<br>**assumption**|**Company commentary (on FY25 business assumptions besides tariffs, and changes in**<br>**medium/long-term strategy)**|**FY24**<br>**capex**<br>**(¥ bn)**|**FY25 capex**<br>**plan**<br>** (¥ bn)**||
|Fujikura|5803.T|Buy|Ryo Harada|Industrial Electronics|140|The company had net cash on its balance sheet as of end-March 2025. In view of this, the<br>company has raised its payout ratio from 30% to 40%. The company noted that strong demand<br>for optical products for data centers is continuing. For smartphone-related FPCs, guidance<br>incorporates the impact of problems occurring downstream in the supply chain. Given the<br>significant improvement in financials and ROE, the company commented that it will consider<br>adjusting the ROE denominator in the next medium-term plan, along with growth investments.|30.7|-|-|
|Furukawa Electric|5801.T|Sell|Ryo Harada|Industrial Electronics|140|The company will continue to work on expanding sales of optical products for data centers, which<br>have been lagging. For water-cooled thermal products for data centers, the company expects to<br>expand capacity around FY26, looking ahead to 2H FY26.|38.6|54.0|40%|
|SWCC|5805.T|Buy|Ryo Harada|Industrial Electronics|-|Following the acquisition of Totoku, the company will build a new business pillar alongside the<br>energy & infrastructure segment. Under the new management team appointed in April, the<br>company plans to announce a new medium-term plan in February 2026. The company will shift<br>from ROIC management in the structural reform phase to ROIC management suited to a growth<br>phase.|6.8|9.0|32%|
|Sumitomo Electric Industries|5802.T|Neutral|Ryo Harada|Industrial Electronics|140|The company expects continued strong performance in optical products for data centers. It<br>increased its FY3/25 year-end dividend and plans to raise its dividend in FY3/26, even though it<br>expects profits to decline due to the impact of tariffs, etc.|243.3|255.0|5%|
|Meidensha|6508.T|Neutral|Ryo Harada|Industrial Electronics|140|The company announced a new medium-term plan. The sales and profit targets look reasonable<br>considering the company's usual conservative stance. On the other hand, the company expects<br>ROE and ROIC to fall from FY3/25 levels. While the previous fiscal year saw strong earnings and<br>special profits, the first impression is underwhelming. The company will work to improve<br>inventory and material turnover rates using DX to enhance asset efficiency.|11.9|20|68%|
|Total|||||||300.6|338.0|12%|


Source: Company data, Goldman Sachs Global Investment Research


**Exhibit 11: SPE company commentary (Covered by Shuhei Nakamura)**



































|Company name<br>KOKUSAI ELECTRIC|Ticker<br>6525.T|Rating<br>Neutral|Analyst<br>Shuhei Nakamura|Sub Sector<br>SPE|Result day<br>5/13 (Tue)|Company commentary (on tariff impacts)<br>US sales account for 5% of guidance. While the direct impact should be minor and there has been<br>no change in customer demand trends at this time, guidance incorporates the possibility that<br>investment in expanding production capacity for general-purpose DRAM will be curbed as an<br>indirect impact (a ¥12 bn haircut, or just under 5% of sales guidance).|Col8|Col9|Col10|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|Ulvac|6728.T|Buy|Shuhei Nakamura|SPE|5/13 (Tue)|<br>North American sales account for a high-single-digit percentage of the total. Direct impact is<br>minor and there has been no change in customer demand trends at this time.|<br>North American sales account for a high-single-digit percentage of the total. Direct impact is<br>minor and there has been no change in customer demand trends at this time.|<br>North American sales account for a high-single-digit percentage of the total. Direct impact is<br>minor and there has been no change in customer demand trends at this time.|<br>North American sales account for a high-single-digit percentage of the total. Direct impact is<br>minor and there has been no change in customer demand trends at this time.|
|JEOL|6951.T|Buy|Shuhei Nakamura|SPE|5/15 (Thu)|The company did not specifically incorporate the impact of tariffs into guidance. Measuring<br>instruments are subject to a 10% tariff, but there has been no major change in order trends so<br>far. The company is also concerned about the impact on demand from academia and<br>pharmaceutical-related customers due to US government budget cuts, but it is currently assessing<br>the impact, as it believes there are tax exemptions for academia-related products.|The company did not specifically incorporate the impact of tariffs into guidance. Measuring<br>instruments are subject to a 10% tariff, but there has been no major change in order trends so<br>far. The company is also concerned about the impact on demand from academia and<br>pharmaceutical-related customers due to US government budget cuts, but it is currently assessing<br>the impact, as it believes there are tax exemptions for academia-related products.|The company did not specifically incorporate the impact of tariffs into guidance. Measuring<br>instruments are subject to a 10% tariff, but there has been no major change in order trends so<br>far. The company is also concerned about the impact on demand from academia and<br>pharmaceutical-related customers due to US government budget cuts, but it is currently assessing<br>the impact, as it believes there are tax exemptions for academia-related products.|The company did not specifically incorporate the impact of tariffs into guidance. Measuring<br>instruments are subject to a 10% tariff, but there has been no major change in order trends so<br>far. The company is also concerned about the impact on demand from academia and<br>pharmaceutical-related customers due to US government budget cuts, but it is currently assessing<br>the impact, as it believes there are tax exemptions for academia-related products.|
|||||||||||
|**Company name**<br>KOKUSAI ELECTRIC|**Ticker**<br>6525.T|**Rating**<br>Neutral|**Analyst**<br>Shuhei Nakamura|**Sub Sector**<br>SPE|**Result day**<br>5/13 (Tue)|**Company commentary (on actions to respond to tariffs)**<br>No particular comment.|**Company commentary (on actions to respond to tariffs)**<br>No particular comment.|**Company commentary (on actions to respond to tariffs)**<br>No particular comment.|**Company commentary (on actions to respond to tariffs)**<br>No particular comment.|
|Ulvac|6728.T|Buy|Shuhei Nakamura|SPE|5/13 (Tue)|No particular comment.|No particular comment.|No particular comment.|No particular comment.|
|JEOL|6951.T|Buy|Shuhei Nakamura|SPE|5/15 (Thu)|No particular comment.|No particular comment.|No particular comment.|No particular comment.|
|||||||||||
|**Company name**<br>KOKUSAI ELECTRIC|**Ticker**<br>6525.T|**Rating**<br>Neutral|**Analyst**<br>Shuhei Nakamura|**Sub Sector**<br>SPE|**FY25**<br>**USD/JPY**<br>**assumption**<br>N/A|**Company commentary (on FY25 business assumptions besides tariffs, and changes in**<br>**medium/long-term strategy)**<br>At the results briefing, the company expressed expectations for higher demand for equipment for<br>new semiconductor plants in the US through CY26.|**FY24 capex**<br>**(¥ bn)**<br>20.3|**FY25 capex**<br>**plan**<br>** (¥ bn)**<br>23.0|**yoy**<br>13%|
|Ulvac|6728.T|Buy|Shuhei Nakamura|SPE|N/A|While not directly related to the tariff discussion, the company recognizes that the capabilities of<br>SPE manufacturers in China and South Korea are rapidly improving. Given this, the company has<br>decided on a policy of fundamental business reforms, including downsizing or withdrawing from<br>low-profit businesses and reducing fixed costs.|-|-|-|
|JEOL|6951.T|Buy|Shuhei Nakamura|SPE|152|In the new medium-term plan, the company announced a new dividend payout ratio target of<br>30%, up from around 20% in recent years.|7.0|-|-|
|Total|||||||27.4|23.0|-16%|


Source: Company data, Goldman Sachs Global Investment Research


25 May 2025 17


Goldman Sachs Japan Export Tracker


**Exhibit 12: Chemical company commentary (Covered by Atsushi Ikeda)**





























































|Company name|Ticker|Rating|Analyst|Sub Sector|Result day|Company commentary (on tariff impacts)|Col8|Col9|Col10|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|Tokyo Ohka Kogyo|4186.T|Buy|Atsushi Ikeda|Chemical|5/12 (Mon)|N/A|N/A|N/A|N/A|
|Mitsubishi Gas Chemical|4182.T|Buy|Atsushi Ikeda|Chemical|5/12 (Mon)|Exports to the US account for c.5% of the company's total sales, so the direct impact is assumed<br>to be minor. However, there could be an indirect impact owing to changes in supply/demand,<br>including for customers and raw materials, and impacts on the supply chain.|Exports to the US account for c.5% of the company's total sales, so the direct impact is assumed<br>to be minor. However, there could be an indirect impact owing to changes in supply/demand,<br>including for customers and raw materials, and impacts on the supply chain.|Exports to the US account for c.5% of the company's total sales, so the direct impact is assumed<br>to be minor. However, there could be an indirect impact owing to changes in supply/demand,<br>including for customers and raw materials, and impacts on the supply chain.|Exports to the US account for c.5% of the company's total sales, so the direct impact is assumed<br>to be minor. However, there could be an indirect impact owing to changes in supply/demand,<br>including for customers and raw materials, and impacts on the supply chain.|
|Kansai Paint|4613.T|Neutral|Atsushi Ikeda|Chemical|5/12 (Mon)|The company expects a decline in domestic auto production due to the transfer of production<br>from Japan to the US, higher costs for its North American subsidiary due to higher tariffs on<br>materials exported from Japan to the US, and a negative impact on GDP in various countries due<br>to a worsening economic climate in response to tariff issues for paints in general. The company<br>has factored in a ¥0.4 bn impact from tariffs into its operating profit guidance.|The company expects a decline in domestic auto production due to the transfer of production<br>from Japan to the US, higher costs for its North American subsidiary due to higher tariffs on<br>materials exported from Japan to the US, and a negative impact on GDP in various countries due<br>to a worsening economic climate in response to tariff issues for paints in general. The company<br>has factored in a ¥0.4 bn impact from tariffs into its operating profit guidance.|The company expects a decline in domestic auto production due to the transfer of production<br>from Japan to the US, higher costs for its North American subsidiary due to higher tariffs on<br>materials exported from Japan to the US, and a negative impact on GDP in various countries due<br>to a worsening economic climate in response to tariff issues for paints in general. The company<br>has factored in a ¥0.4 bn impact from tariffs into its operating profit guidance.|The company expects a decline in domestic auto production due to the transfer of production<br>from Japan to the US, higher costs for its North American subsidiary due to higher tariffs on<br>materials exported from Japan to the US, and a negative impact on GDP in various countries due<br>to a worsening economic climate in response to tariff issues for paints in general. The company<br>has factored in a ¥0.4 bn impact from tariffs into its operating profit guidance.|
|Denka|4061.T|Sell|Atsushi Ikeda|Chemical|5/13 (Tue)|<br>The company has factored in a ¥3 bn impact from tariffs, reflecting the risk of lower selling prices<br>and volume declines due to tariffs. On the other hand, the company said it will work to offset the<br>impact of tariffs as much as possible.|<br>The company has factored in a ¥3 bn impact from tariffs, reflecting the risk of lower selling prices<br>and volume declines due to tariffs. On the other hand, the company said it will work to offset the<br>impact of tariffs as much as possible.|<br>The company has factored in a ¥3 bn impact from tariffs, reflecting the risk of lower selling prices<br>and volume declines due to tariffs. On the other hand, the company said it will work to offset the<br>impact of tariffs as much as possible.|<br>The company has factored in a ¥3 bn impact from tariffs, reflecting the risk of lower selling prices<br>and volume declines due to tariffs. On the other hand, the company said it will work to offset the<br>impact of tariffs as much as possible.|
|Mitsui Chemicals Inc.|4183.T|Neutral|Atsushi Ikeda|Chemical|5/13 (Tue)|Group locations that export directly to the US are subject to tariffs. By market, automotive and<br>semiconductors account for c. 80% of the tariff impact (\8 bn in core operating profit), and<br>agrochemicals for c.20%.|Group locations that export directly to the US are subject to tariffs. By market, automotive and<br>semiconductors account for c. 80% of the tariff impact (\8 bn in core operating profit), and<br>agrochemicals for c.20%.|Group locations that export directly to the US are subject to tariffs. By market, automotive and<br>semiconductors account for c. 80% of the tariff impact (\8 bn in core operating profit), and<br>agrochemicals for c.20%.|Group locations that export directly to the US are subject to tariffs. By market, automotive and<br>semiconductors account for c. 80% of the tariff impact (\8 bn in core operating profit), and<br>agrochemicals for c.20%.|
|Daicel|4202.T|Buy|Atsushi Ikeda|Chemical|5/13 (Tue)|While inflators are manufactured locally in the US, the company imports raw materials for metal<br>parts from outside the US, which will be affected by tariffs. However, the company believes it can<br>pass on all of the cost increases. The company believes the risk is not from tariffs themselves, but<br>rather from a decline in demand due to inflation, etc.|While inflators are manufactured locally in the US, the company imports raw materials for metal<br>parts from outside the US, which will be affected by tariffs. However, the company believes it can<br>pass on all of the cost increases. The company believes the risk is not from tariffs themselves, but<br>rather from a decline in demand due to inflation, etc.|While inflators are manufactured locally in the US, the company imports raw materials for metal<br>parts from outside the US, which will be affected by tariffs. However, the company believes it can<br>pass on all of the cost increases. The company believes the risk is not from tariffs themselves, but<br>rather from a decline in demand due to inflation, etc.|While inflators are manufactured locally in the US, the company imports raw materials for metal<br>parts from outside the US, which will be affected by tariffs. However, the company believes it can<br>pass on all of the cost increases. The company believes the risk is not from tariffs themselves, but<br>rather from a decline in demand due to inflation, etc.|
|Nippon Shokubai|4114.T|Sell|Atsushi Ikeda|Chemical|5/13 (Tue)|There is almost no direct impact. The company has factored in an indirect impact from tariffs on<br>automotive paints (acrylic acid esters/special esters) into its guidance.|There is almost no direct impact. The company has factored in an indirect impact from tariffs on<br>automotive paints (acrylic acid esters/special esters) into its guidance.|There is almost no direct impact. The company has factored in an indirect impact from tariffs on<br>automotive paints (acrylic acid esters/special esters) into its guidance.|There is almost no direct impact. The company has factored in an indirect impact from tariffs on<br>automotive paints (acrylic acid esters/special esters) into its guidance.|
|Fujimi Inc.|5384.T|Sell|Atsushi Ikeda|Chemical|5/13 (Tue)|Tariffs will be imposed on some raw materials produced at the company's US plant. There may<br>also be some tariff impact on products shipped from Japan to the company's US operations, but<br>the company has begun discussions with customers to pass on the cost increases.|Tariffs will be imposed on some raw materials produced at the company's US plant. There may<br>also be some tariff impact on products shipped from Japan to the company's US operations, but<br>the company has begun discussions with customers to pass on the cost increases.|Tariffs will be imposed on some raw materials produced at the company's US plant. There may<br>also be some tariff impact on products shipped from Japan to the company's US operations, but<br>the company has begun discussions with customers to pass on the cost increases.|Tariffs will be imposed on some raw materials produced at the company's US plant. There may<br>also be some tariff impact on products shipped from Japan to the company's US operations, but<br>the company has begun discussions with customers to pass on the cost increases.|
|Toray Industries|3402.T|Buy|Atsushi Ikeda|Chemical|5/14 (Wed)|After Japan, the US is the company's second largest region in terms of invested capital. It has a<br>strong production base in the US, and sees this not only as a risk but also as an opportunity. A<br>typical product it exports from outside the US is textiles. Its strength is that it has many supply<br>chain bases globally for textiles, and can flexibly adjust operations in response to changes.|After Japan, the US is the company's second largest region in terms of invested capital. It has a<br>strong production base in the US, and sees this not only as a risk but also as an opportunity. A<br>typical product it exports from outside the US is textiles. Its strength is that it has many supply<br>chain bases globally for textiles, and can flexibly adjust operations in response to changes.|After Japan, the US is the company's second largest region in terms of invested capital. It has a<br>strong production base in the US, and sees this not only as a risk but also as an opportunity. A<br>typical product it exports from outside the US is textiles. Its strength is that it has many supply<br>chain bases globally for textiles, and can flexibly adjust operations in response to changes.|After Japan, the US is the company's second largest region in terms of invested capital. It has a<br>strong production base in the US, and sees this not only as a risk but also as an opportunity. A<br>typical product it exports from outside the US is textiles. Its strength is that it has many supply<br>chain bases globally for textiles, and can flexibly adjust operations in response to changes.|
|Kuraray|3405.T|Buy|Atsushi Ikeda|Chemical|5/14 (Wed)|Company has strong manufacturing bases in the US for many key products, and believes it is in a<br>very advantageous position as an exporter. On the other hand, in the event of retaliatory tariffs,<br>there is a considerable amount of exports from the US to China, and retaliatory tariffs would be<br>negative. In particular, it does not have a production base in China for core product EVAL, so it<br>has already discussed this with Chinese customers and decided to ship from bases in Japan and<br>Europe.|Company has strong manufacturing bases in the US for many key products, and believes it is in a<br>very advantageous position as an exporter. On the other hand, in the event of retaliatory tariffs,<br>there is a considerable amount of exports from the US to China, and retaliatory tariffs would be<br>negative. In particular, it does not have a production base in China for core product EVAL, so it<br>has already discussed this with Chinese customers and decided to ship from bases in Japan and<br>Europe.|Company has strong manufacturing bases in the US for many key products, and believes it is in a<br>very advantageous position as an exporter. On the other hand, in the event of retaliatory tariffs,<br>there is a considerable amount of exports from the US to China, and retaliatory tariffs would be<br>negative. In particular, it does not have a production base in China for core product EVAL, so it<br>has already discussed this with Chinese customers and decided to ship from bases in Japan and<br>Europe.|Company has strong manufacturing bases in the US for many key products, and believes it is in a<br>very advantageous position as an exporter. On the other hand, in the event of retaliatory tariffs,<br>there is a considerable amount of exports from the US to China, and retaliatory tariffs would be<br>negative. In particular, it does not have a production base in China for core product EVAL, so it<br>has already discussed this with Chinese customers and decided to ship from bases in Japan and<br>Europe.|
|Nippon Paint Holdings|4612.T|Neutral|Atsushi Ikeda|Chemical|5/14 (Wed)|Regarding the impact of US tariffs, since the company essentially operates on a local production<br>for local consumption model, exports and imports of products to/from the US are extremely<br>limited, and most raw materials are procured regionally. Therefore, the company does not expect<br>a significant short-term, direct impact. However, it will be necessary to monitor trends at raw<br>material manufacturers and production trends at industrial customers, including automotive<br>customers.|Regarding the impact of US tariffs, since the company essentially operates on a local production<br>for local consumption model, exports and imports of products to/from the US are extremely<br>limited, and most raw materials are procured regionally. Therefore, the company does not expect<br>a significant short-term, direct impact. However, it will be necessary to monitor trends at raw<br>material manufacturers and production trends at industrial customers, including automotive<br>customers.|Regarding the impact of US tariffs, since the company essentially operates on a local production<br>for local consumption model, exports and imports of products to/from the US are extremely<br>limited, and most raw materials are procured regionally. Therefore, the company does not expect<br>a significant short-term, direct impact. However, it will be necessary to monitor trends at raw<br>material manufacturers and production trends at industrial customers, including automotive<br>customers.|Regarding the impact of US tariffs, since the company essentially operates on a local production<br>for local consumption model, exports and imports of products to/from the US are extremely<br>limited, and most raw materials are procured regionally. Therefore, the company does not expect<br>a significant short-term, direct impact. However, it will be necessary to monitor trends at raw<br>material manufacturers and production trends at industrial customers, including automotive<br>customers.|
|||||||||||
|**Company name**|**Ticker**|**Rating**|**Analyst**|**Sub Sector**|**Result day**|**Company commentary (on actions to respond to tariffs)**|**Company commentary (on actions to respond to tariffs)**|**Company commentary (on actions to respond to tariffs)**|**Company commentary (on actions to respond to tariffs)**|
|Tokyo Ohka Kogyo|4186.T|Buy|Atsushi Ikeda|Chemical|5/12 (Mon)|N/A|N/A|N/A|N/A|
|Mitsubishi Gas Chemical|4182.T|Buy|Atsushi Ikeda|Chemical|5/12 (Mon)|N/A|N/A|N/A|N/A|
|Kansai Paint|4613.T|Neutral|Atsushi Ikeda|Chemical|5/12 (Mon)|N/A|N/A|N/A|N/A|
|Denka|4061.T|Sell|Atsushi Ikeda|Chemical|5/13 (Tue)|As the company has been moving toward a local procurement model for both raw materials and<br>products, and the weighting of its North American and Chinese businesses is low, the company<br>believes the impact will be limited.|As the company has been moving toward a local procurement model for both raw materials and<br>products, and the weighting of its North American and Chinese businesses is low, the company<br>believes the impact will be limited.|As the company has been moving toward a local procurement model for both raw materials and<br>products, and the weighting of its North American and Chinese businesses is low, the company<br>believes the impact will be limited.|As the company has been moving toward a local procurement model for both raw materials and<br>products, and the weighting of its North American and Chinese businesses is low, the company<br>believes the impact will be limited.|
|Mitsui Chemicals Inc.|4183.T|Neutral|Atsushi Ikeda|Chemical|5/13 (Tue)|The company has production bases globally and is promoting local production for local<br>consumption, so the impact on PP compounds, which are mainly for automotive applications,<br>should be limited. The company has a well-established supply chain setup in the North American<br>market, and aims to allocate its production by utilizing these bases. On the other hand, the<br>company also wants to expand sales opportunities by leveraging its strengths. The company will<br>decide on pricing after discussions with customers, and aims to minimize the impact of tariffs<br>through careful dialogue. The company is already taking steps to achieve this.|The company has production bases globally and is promoting local production for local<br>consumption, so the impact on PP compounds, which are mainly for automotive applications,<br>should be limited. The company has a well-established supply chain setup in the North American<br>market, and aims to allocate its production by utilizing these bases. On the other hand, the<br>company also wants to expand sales opportunities by leveraging its strengths. The company will<br>decide on pricing after discussions with customers, and aims to minimize the impact of tariffs<br>through careful dialogue. The company is already taking steps to achieve this.|The company has production bases globally and is promoting local production for local<br>consumption, so the impact on PP compounds, which are mainly for automotive applications,<br>should be limited. The company has a well-established supply chain setup in the North American<br>market, and aims to allocate its production by utilizing these bases. On the other hand, the<br>company also wants to expand sales opportunities by leveraging its strengths. The company will<br>decide on pricing after discussions with customers, and aims to minimize the impact of tariffs<br>through careful dialogue. The company is already taking steps to achieve this.|The company has production bases globally and is promoting local production for local<br>consumption, so the impact on PP compounds, which are mainly for automotive applications,<br>should be limited. The company has a well-established supply chain setup in the North American<br>market, and aims to allocate its production by utilizing these bases. On the other hand, the<br>company also wants to expand sales opportunities by leveraging its strengths. The company will<br>decide on pricing after discussions with customers, and aims to minimize the impact of tariffs<br>through careful dialogue. The company is already taking steps to achieve this.|
|Daicel|4202.T|Buy|Atsushi Ikeda|Chemical|5/13 (Tue)|<br>The company will pass on price increases to customers.|<br>The company will pass on price increases to customers.|<br>The company will pass on price increases to customers.|<br>The company will pass on price increases to customers.|
|Nippon Shokubai|4114.T|Sell|Atsushi Ikeda|Chemical|5/13 (Tue)|N/A|N/A|N/A|N/A|
|Fujimi Inc.|5384.T|Sell|Atsushi Ikeda|Chemical|5/13 (Tue)|The company will pass on price increases to customers.|The company will pass on price increases to customers.|The company will pass on price increases to customers.|The company will pass on price increases to customers.|
|Toray Industries|3402.T|Buy|Atsushi Ikeda|Chemical|5/14 (Wed)|The company's basic policy is premised on passing on cost increases from tariffs to customers.<br>The company formed a special project team for tariffs and acted quickly. While it said that it is<br>difficult to say anything definitive at this time, the company plans to make disclosures as<br>appropriate from 1Q onward.|The company's basic policy is premised on passing on cost increases from tariffs to customers.<br>The company formed a special project team for tariffs and acted quickly. While it said that it is<br>difficult to say anything definitive at this time, the company plans to make disclosures as<br>appropriate from 1Q onward.|The company's basic policy is premised on passing on cost increases from tariffs to customers.<br>The company formed a special project team for tariffs and acted quickly. While it said that it is<br>difficult to say anything definitive at this time, the company plans to make disclosures as<br>appropriate from 1Q onward.|The company's basic policy is premised on passing on cost increases from tariffs to customers.<br>The company formed a special project team for tariffs and acted quickly. While it said that it is<br>difficult to say anything definitive at this time, the company plans to make disclosures as<br>appropriate from 1Q onward.|
|Kuraray|3405.T|Buy|Atsushi Ikeda|Chemical|5/14 (Wed)|While products manufactured only in Japan will be affected, some dental materials are exported<br>to the US in significant volumes by Chinese manufacturers. The company said that the current<br>tariff situation could be quite advantageous for Japanese-made dental materials in terms of<br>performance.|While products manufactured only in Japan will be affected, some dental materials are exported<br>to the US in significant volumes by Chinese manufacturers. The company said that the current<br>tariff situation could be quite advantageous for Japanese-made dental materials in terms of<br>performance.|While products manufactured only in Japan will be affected, some dental materials are exported<br>to the US in significant volumes by Chinese manufacturers. The company said that the current<br>tariff situation could be quite advantageous for Japanese-made dental materials in terms of<br>performance.|While products manufactured only in Japan will be affected, some dental materials are exported<br>to the US in significant volumes by Chinese manufacturers. The company said that the current<br>tariff situation could be quite advantageous for Japanese-made dental materials in terms of<br>performance.|
|Nippon Paint Holdings|4612.T|Neutral|Atsushi Ikeda|Chemical|5/14 (Wed)|N/A|N/A|N/A|N/A|
|||||||||||
|**Company name**|**Ticker**|**Rating**|**Analyst**|**Sub Sector**|**FY25**<br>**USD/JPY**<br>**assumption**|**Company commentary (on FY25 business assumptions besides tariffs, and changes in**<br>**medium/long-term strategy)**|**FY24 capex**<br>**(¥ bn)**|**FY25 capex plan**<br>** (¥ bn)**|**yoy**|
|Tokyo Ohka Kogyo|4186.T|Buy|Atsushi Ikeda|Chemical|140|N/A|24.7|33.0|34%|
|Mitsubishi Gas Chemical|4182.T|Buy|Atsushi Ikeda|Chemical|140|While there could be an indirect impact from changes in supply/demand, including for customers<br>and raw materials, and from supply chain impacts, there are many uncertainties, so the company<br>has not factored in the full impact.|88.7|87.0|-2%|
|Kansai Paint|4613.T|Neutral|Atsushi Ikeda|Chemical|-|N/A|26.0|-|-|
|Denka|4061.T|Sell|Atsushi Ikeda|Chemical|145|N/A|69.2|60.0|-13%|
|Mitsui Chemicals Inc.|4183.T|Neutral|Atsushi Ikeda|Chemical|-|While the situation is changing daily, the company assumes that the US policy of imposing certain<br>tariffs will remain unchanged, and has made assumptions accordingly. After internal discussions,<br>the company has identified sales of products exported directly to the US from group bases. The<br>impact factored into guidance is based on multiplying this by a certain assumed tariff rate<br>increase. By segment, automotive and semiconductors account for c.80% of the impact (¥8 bn on<br>core operating profits). Agrochemicals account for c.20%.|-|-|-|
|Daicel|4202.T|Buy|Atsushi Ikeda|Chemical|140|N/A|69.5|71.0|2%|
|Nippon Shokubai|4114.T|Sell|Atsushi Ikeda|Chemical|153|N/A|37.8|56.5|49%|
|Fujimi Inc.|5384.T|Sell|Atsushi Ikeda|Chemical|-|Since the situation is changing daily it is difficult to make projections, the company's guidance<br>does not incorporate the impact of tariffs.|12.8|29.6|131%|
|Toray Industries|3402.T|Buy|Atsushi Ikeda|Chemical|145|The company has factored in a certain impact from the spread of the situation to the global<br>economy into its guidance based on the macro environment (¥15 bn on operating profits).|218.7|180.0|-18%|
|Kuraray|3405.T|Buy|Atsushi Ikeda|Chemical|145|<br>The company has a strong presence in the US, mainly in core businesses such as EVAL (c.56% of<br>production capacity in the US as of end-2024), poval resin (c.29%), activated carbon (c.69% for<br>new carbon), and SEPTON (c.39%), with a local production for local consumption framework in<br>place for most products sold to the US market. In particular, for products such as activated<br>carbon, where there are exports from China to the US, tariffs reducing the competitiveness of<br>Chinese products could be a relative advantage for Kuraray. While the company also exports<br>some products (such as EVAL) from the US to China, it can respond by shipping from other bases<br>in Japan and Europe. Utilizing its globally dispersed manufacturing base network to stand out<br>could emphasize Kuraray's ability to manage risk<br>The company also announced a sizable ¥30 bn share buyback (c.6.79% of total outstanding<br>shares excluding treasury stock) in 1Q FY25, having been viewed by the stock market to date as<br>not particularly active in share buybacks. Furthermore, at the results briefing, Kuraray said that to<br>increase ROE, it would like to lower its equity ratio, which is currently somewhat high at c.59%, to<br>the lower end of the 50-60% range. Considering the significant expansion of net profits expected<br>from top-line growth in core businesses, large-scale share buybacks will likely be needed, and we<br>intend to watch for further moves to enhance shareholder returns.|84.3|100.0|19%|
|Nippon Paint Holdings|4612.T|Neutral|Atsushi Ikeda|Chemical|148|<br>N/A|75.8|-|-|
|Total|||||||504.2|500.5|-1%|


Source: Company data, Goldman Sachs Global Investment Research


25 May 2025 18


Goldman Sachs Japan Export Tracker


**Exhibit 13: Games/entertainment company commentary (Covered by Minami Munakata)**



































|Company name|Ticker|Rating|Analyst|Sub Sector|Result day|Company commentary (on tariff impacts)|Col8|Col9|Col10|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|Nexon|3659.T|Sell|Minami Munakata|Games & Internet|5/13 (Tue)|N/A|N/A|N/A|N/A|
|Capcom|9697.T|Buy|Minami Munakata|Games & Internet|5/13 (Tue)|N/A|N/A|N/A|N/A|
|Sony Group|6758.T|Buy|Minami Munakata|Games & Internet|5/14 (Wed)|At present, the three areas expected to be affected are G&NS, ET&S, and I&SS (I&SS is an<br>indirect impact). The company is considering countermeasures based on multiple scenarios, and<br>expects to be able to manage the impact on FY25 operating profits to around ¥100 bn, or less<br>than 10% of operating profit guidance excluding the impact of tariffs.|At present, the three areas expected to be affected are G&NS, ET&S, and I&SS (I&SS is an<br>indirect impact). The company is considering countermeasures based on multiple scenarios, and<br>expects to be able to manage the impact on FY25 operating profits to around ¥100 bn, or less<br>than 10% of operating profit guidance excluding the impact of tariffs.|At present, the three areas expected to be affected are G&NS, ET&S, and I&SS (I&SS is an<br>indirect impact). The company is considering countermeasures based on multiple scenarios, and<br>expects to be able to manage the impact on FY25 operating profits to around ¥100 bn, or less<br>than 10% of operating profit guidance excluding the impact of tariffs.|At present, the three areas expected to be affected are G&NS, ET&S, and I&SS (I&SS is an<br>indirect impact). The company is considering countermeasures based on multiple scenarios, and<br>expects to be able to manage the impact on FY25 operating profits to around ¥100 bn, or less<br>than 10% of operating profit guidance excluding the impact of tariffs.|
|Square Enix Holdings|9684.T|Sell|Minami Munakata|Games & Internet|5/14 (Wed)|N/A|N/A|N/A|N/A|
|CyberAgent|4751.T|Neutral|Minami Munakata|Games & Internet|5/15 (Thu)|N/A|N/A|N/A|N/A|
|||||||||||
|**Company name**|**Ticker**|**Rating**|**Analyst**|**Sub Sector**|**Result day**|**Company commentary (on actions to respond to tariffs)**|**Company commentary (on actions to respond to tariffs)**|**Company commentary (on actions to respond to tariffs)**|**Company commentary (on actions to respond to tariffs)**|
|Nexon|3659.T|Sell|Minami Munakata|Games & Internet|5/13 (Tue)|N/A|N/A|N/A|N/A|
|Capcom|9697.T|Buy|Minami Munakata|Games & Internet|5/13 (Tue)|N/A|N/A|N/A|N/A|
|Sony Group|6758.T|Buy|Minami Munakata|Games & Internet|5/14 (Wed)|The company will build up strategic inventories in the US, adjust product shipment allocations<br>globally, and pass on a certain level of price increases, taking into account market trends.<br>Production of the PS5 has already been expanded from mainly China to four countries.|The company will build up strategic inventories in the US, adjust product shipment allocations<br>globally, and pass on a certain level of price increases, taking into account market trends.<br>Production of the PS5 has already been expanded from mainly China to four countries.|The company will build up strategic inventories in the US, adjust product shipment allocations<br>globally, and pass on a certain level of price increases, taking into account market trends.<br>Production of the PS5 has already been expanded from mainly China to four countries.|The company will build up strategic inventories in the US, adjust product shipment allocations<br>globally, and pass on a certain level of price increases, taking into account market trends.<br>Production of the PS5 has already been expanded from mainly China to four countries.|
|Square Enix Holdings|9684.T|Sell|Minami Munakata|Games & Internet|5/14 (Wed)|N/A|N/A|N/A|N/A|
|CyberAgent|4751.T|Neutral|Minami Munakata|Games & Internet|5/15 (Thu)|N/A|N/A|N/A|N/A|
|||||||||||
|**Company name**|**Ticker**|**Rating**|**Analyst**|**Sub Sector**|**FY25**<br>**USD/JPY**<br>**assumption**<br>144|**Company commentary (on FY25 business assumptions besides tariffs, and changes in**<br>**medium/long-term strategy)**<br>N/A|**FY24**<br>**capex**<br>**(¥ bn)**<br>-|**FY25**<br>**capex**<br>**plan**<br>** (¥ bn)**<br>-|**Capex**<br>**growth**<br>**yoy**<br>-|
|Nexon|3659.T|Sell|Minami Munakata|Games & Internet|Games & Internet|Games & Internet|Games & Internet|Games & Internet|Games & Internet|
|Capcom|9697.T|Buy|Minami Munakata|Games & Internet|140|N/A|8.3|20.3|145%|
|Sony Group|6758.T|Buy|Minami Munakata|Games & Internet|143|FY3/26 guidance incorporates a tariff impact of c.¥100 bn, and the company will operate its<br>business under cautious and conservative assumptions this fiscal year. Regarding capital<br>allocation, the company has raised its forecast for cumulative operating cash flow for the three<br>years from FY3/26 to FY3/28 from ¥4.5 tn to ¥4.8 tn, based on actual results for FY3/25. The<br>increased portion will be allocated to increasing shareholder returns, according to the company.<br>Strategic investments and capex remain unchanged from the initial plan at ¥1.8 tn and ¥1.7 tn,<br>respectively, but the company will review these quickly and flexibly if there are major changes in<br>the business environment. For the CMOS image sensor business, the company is considering joint<br>capex and outsourcing of production to improve investment efficiency. Capex for CMOS image<br>sensors is c.70% of the level in the previous medium-term plan period, but is expected to return<br>to the level of the previous medium-term plan in the next medium-term plan due to the<br>introduction of new processes.|345.7|370.0|7%|
|Square Enix Holdings|9684.T|Sell|Minami Munakata|Games & Internet|-|<br>N/A|-|-|-|
|CyberAgent|4751.T|Neutral|Minami Munakata|Games & Internet|-|N/A|-|-|-|
|Total|||||||354.0|390.3|10%|


Source: Company data, Goldman Sachs Global Investment Research


**Exhibit 14: Retail company commentary (Covered by Sho Kawano)**











|Company name<br>Pan Pacific International Holdings|Ticker<br>7532.T|Rating<br>Buy|Analyst<br>Sho Kawano|Sub Sector<br>Retail|Result day<br>5/14 (Wed)|Company commentary (on tariff impacts)<br>North American business accounted for 12% of sales and 3% of operating profits (FY6/24). Tariff<br>impact is limited.|Col8|Col9|Col10|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|Asics|7936.T|Buy (CL)|Sho Kawano|Retail|5/14 (Wed)|North American business accounted for 17% of sales and 8% of operating profits (FY12/24).<br>Tariff impact is set to emerge in 4Q only owing to inventory buildup. The impact of tariff policy<br>and higher freight costs on FY12/25 operating profits is estimated at up to ¥5 bn (worst-case<br>scenario, not considering the burden on wholesalers/production plants/consumers).|North American business accounted for 17% of sales and 8% of operating profits (FY12/24).<br>Tariff impact is set to emerge in 4Q only owing to inventory buildup. The impact of tariff policy<br>and higher freight costs on FY12/25 operating profits is estimated at up to ¥5 bn (worst-case<br>scenario, not considering the burden on wholesalers/production plants/consumers).|North American business accounted for 17% of sales and 8% of operating profits (FY12/24).<br>Tariff impact is set to emerge in 4Q only owing to inventory buildup. The impact of tariff policy<br>and higher freight costs on FY12/25 operating profits is estimated at up to ¥5 bn (worst-case<br>scenario, not considering the burden on wholesalers/production plants/consumers).|North American business accounted for 17% of sales and 8% of operating profits (FY12/24).<br>Tariff impact is set to emerge in 4Q only owing to inventory buildup. The impact of tariff policy<br>and higher freight costs on FY12/25 operating profits is estimated at up to ¥5 bn (worst-case<br>scenario, not considering the burden on wholesalers/production plants/consumers).|
|||||||||||
|**Company name**<br>Pan Pacific International Holdings|**Ticker**<br>7532.T|**Rating**<br>Buy|**Analyst**<br>Sho Kawano|**Sub Sector**<br>Retail|**Result day**<br>5/14 (Wed)|**Company commentary (on actions to respond to tariffs)**<br>The company is monitoring the fluid situation.|**Company commentary (on actions to respond to tariffs)**<br>The company is monitoring the fluid situation.|**Company commentary (on actions to respond to tariffs)**<br>The company is monitoring the fluid situation.|**Company commentary (on actions to respond to tariffs)**<br>The company is monitoring the fluid situation.|
|Asics|7936.T|Buy (CL)|Sho Kawano|Retail|5/14 (Wed)|The company plans to build up inventory by July, when reciprocal tariffs are due to take effect,<br>aiming for inventory turnover of over three months as of July.|The company plans to build up inventory by July, when reciprocal tariffs are due to take effect,<br>aiming for inventory turnover of over three months as of July.|The company plans to build up inventory by July, when reciprocal tariffs are due to take effect,<br>aiming for inventory turnover of over three months as of July.|The company plans to build up inventory by July, when reciprocal tariffs are due to take effect,<br>aiming for inventory turnover of over three months as of July.|
|||||||||||
|**Company name**<br>Pan Pacific International Holdings|**Ticker**<br>7532.T|**Rating**<br>Buy|**Analyst**<br>Sho Kawano|**Sub Sector**<br>Retail|**FY25 USD/JPY**<br>**assumption**<br>-|**Company commentary (on FY25 business assumptions besides tariffs, and changes in**<br>**medium/long-term strategy)**<br>PPIH sees the current situation as a major opportunity, as some Chinese companies are<br>experiencing oversupply due to order cancellations from the US following the tariffs and the<br>elimination of de minimis rules (tariff exemptions for small shipments under US$800), which could<br>provide cost benefits for the company's procurement, mainly for small-lot products.|**FY24**<br>**capex**<br>**(¥ bn)**<br>-|**FY25**<br>**capex**<br>**plan**<br>** (¥ bn)**<br>-|**yoy**<br>-|
|Asics|7936.T|Buy (CL)|Sho Kawano|Retail|150|With cost increases unavoidable for peers as well, the company sees tariffs as a growth<br>opportunity rather than a risk. It plans to implement flexible policies in North America, where its<br>market share is rising.|24.1|-|-|
|Total||||||||||


Source: Company data, Goldman Sachs Global Investment Research











25 May 2025 19


Goldman Sachs Japan Export Tracker


**Exhibit 15: Consumer goods company commentary (Covered by Takashi Miyazaki)**



























|Company name<br>Shiseido|Ticker<br>4911.T|Rating<br>Neutral|Analyst<br>Takashi Miyazaki|Sub Sector<br>Consumer|Result day<br>5/12 (Mon)|Company commentary (on tariff impacts)<br>Assuming a 145% US tariff on China and a 125% retaliatory tariff by China on the US, the<br>company estimates a maximum negative impact of ¥7 bn for full-FY12/25 (impact in 2Q to be<br>minor). The relatively large impact reflects higher import costs into the US from China, Mexico,<br>Canada, and other regions, and higher import costs in the China/travel retail businesses for<br>products such as NARS manufactured at US plants.|Col8|Col9|Col10|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|Kirin Holdings|2503.T|Sell|Takashi Miyazaki|Consumer|5/13 (Tue)|While the company expects higher costs for inputs imported from outside the US in Lion's North<br>American craft beer business and Coke Northeast, it sees the impact as minor. Kyowa Kirin<br>exports some pharmaceuticals from Japan to the US, and could be affected if pharmaceuticals<br>become subject to reciprocal tariffs.|While the company expects higher costs for inputs imported from outside the US in Lion's North<br>American craft beer business and Coke Northeast, it sees the impact as minor. Kyowa Kirin<br>exports some pharmaceuticals from Japan to the US, and could be affected if pharmaceuticals<br>become subject to reciprocal tariffs.|While the company expects higher costs for inputs imported from outside the US in Lion's North<br>American craft beer business and Coke Northeast, it sees the impact as minor. Kyowa Kirin<br>exports some pharmaceuticals from Japan to the US, and could be affected if pharmaceuticals<br>become subject to reciprocal tariffs.|While the company expects higher costs for inputs imported from outside the US in Lion's North<br>American craft beer business and Coke Northeast, it sees the impact as minor. Kyowa Kirin<br>exports some pharmaceuticals from Japan to the US, and could be affected if pharmaceuticals<br>become subject to reciprocal tariffs.|
|||||||||||
|**Company name**<br>Shiseido|**Ticker**<br>4911.T|**Rating**<br>Neutral|**Analyst**<br>Takashi Miyazaki|**Sub Sector**<br>Consumer|**Result day**<br>5/12 (Mon)|**Company commentary (on actions to respond to tariffs)**<br>The company will continue to change local procurement sources and review production locations,<br>and aims to minimize tariff impact through additional actions such as inventory buildup and<br>changes to logistics flows. While raising wholesale prices is an option, the company will consider<br>its global pricing policy as a brand, rather than raising prices only in specific regions.|**Company commentary (on actions to respond to tariffs)**<br>The company will continue to change local procurement sources and review production locations,<br>and aims to minimize tariff impact through additional actions such as inventory buildup and<br>changes to logistics flows. While raising wholesale prices is an option, the company will consider<br>its global pricing policy as a brand, rather than raising prices only in specific regions.|**Company commentary (on actions to respond to tariffs)**<br>The company will continue to change local procurement sources and review production locations,<br>and aims to minimize tariff impact through additional actions such as inventory buildup and<br>changes to logistics flows. While raising wholesale prices is an option, the company will consider<br>its global pricing policy as a brand, rather than raising prices only in specific regions.|**Company commentary (on actions to respond to tariffs)**<br>The company will continue to change local procurement sources and review production locations,<br>and aims to minimize tariff impact through additional actions such as inventory buildup and<br>changes to logistics flows. While raising wholesale prices is an option, the company will consider<br>its global pricing policy as a brand, rather than raising prices only in specific regions.|
|Kirin Holdings|2503.T|Sell|Takashi Miyazaki|Consumer|5/13 (Tue)|The company will consider absorbing the impact through pass-through to prices and cost<br>management.|The company will consider absorbing the impact through pass-through to prices and cost<br>management.|The company will consider absorbing the impact through pass-through to prices and cost<br>management.|The company will consider absorbing the impact through pass-through to prices and cost<br>management.|
|||||||||||
|**Company name**|**Ticker**|**Rating**|**Analyst**|**Sub Sector**|**FY25**<br>**USD/JPY**<br>**assumption**|**Company commentary (on FY25 business assumptions besides tariffs, and changes in**<br>**medium/long-term strategy)**|**FY24 capex**<br>**(¥ bn)**|**FY25**<br>**capex**<br>**plan**<br>** (¥ bn)**|**Capex**<br>**growth**<br>**yoy**|
|Shiseido|4911.T|Neutral|Takashi Miyazaki|Consumer|145|Nothing in particular|48.9|<br>52.0|6%|
|Kirin Holdings<br>2503.T|Kirin Holdings<br>2503.T|Sell|Takashi Miyazaki|Consumer|145|Nothing in particular|180.6|187.4|4%|
|total|||||||229.5|239.4|4%|


Source: Company data, Goldman Sachs Global Investment Research


25 May 2025 20


Goldman Sachs Japan Export Tracker

## Price Target Risks and Methodology

|ibit 16: Valuations|Col2|Col3|Col4|Col5|Col6|Col7|Col8|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|||||||||
|||||||||
|||||||||
|||||||||
|||||||||
|||||||||
|||||||||
|||||||||
|||||||||
|||||||||
|||||||||
|||||||||
|||||||||
|||||||||
|||||||||
|||||||||
|||||||%||
|||||||||
|||||||||
|||||||||
|||||||||
|||||||||
|||||||||
|||||||||
|||||||||
|||||||||
|||||||||
|||||||||
||||||||.|
|||||||||
|||||||||
|||||||||
|||||||||
|||||||||
|||||||||
|||||||||
|||||||23%||
|||||||||
|||||||||
|||||||||
|||||||||
|||||||||
|||||||||
|||||||||
|||||||||
|||||||||
|||||||||
|||||||||
|||||||||
|||||||||
|||||||||



Stock prices are as of 5/23 close


Source: LSEG Data & Analytics, Goldman Sachs Global Investment Research


25 May 2025 21


Goldman Sachs Japan Export Tracker







































|bit 17: Risks|Col2|Col3|Col4|Col5|
|---|---|---|---|---|
|**Company name**<br>Nifco Inc.|**Ticker**<br>7988.T|**Rating**<br>Neutral|**Analyst**<br>Kota Yuzawa|**Risks**<br>Key risks include (1) upside/downside to production at Japanese/Korean automakers, (2) improvement/deterioration in earnings in the Asia region, and<br>(3) upside/downside to sales per vehicle.|
|Mazda Motor|7261.T|Neutral|Kota Yuzawa|Key risks include forex swings, new SUV sales trends, preparations for vehicle electrification, and tariff revisions.|
|Tokyo Ohka Kogyo|4186.T|Buy|Atsushi Ikeda|Key risks include a slowdown in semiconductor demand, stiffer-than-expected competition in EUV photoresists, and forex swings.|
|Suzuki Motor|7269.T|Buy|Kota Yuzawa|Key risks include yen appreciation, a slowdown in the Indian economy due to inflation, and rapid EV expansion.|
|Mitsubishi Gas Chemical|4182.T|Buy|Atsushi Ikeda|Key risks: Stiffer competition in smartphone lens specialty resins and semiconductor package substrate materials, yen appreciation, and price declines for<br>methanol and other market-sensitive products.|
|Kansai Paint|4613.T|Neutral|Atsushi Ikeda|Key risks include greater-than-expected fluctuation in crude oil prices and other raw material costs, the competitive landscape in the Indian market, and<br>increased/reduced demand for automotive paints, which accounted for about one third of FY3/25 sales.|
|TOYO TIRE|5105.T|Buy|Kota Yuzawa|Key risks include increased passenger car tire imports to the US from Asia, a decline in miles driven in North America due to higher gasoline prices,<br>higher marine freight charges, yen appreciation, a sharp rise in input costs, and deterioration in capacity utilization accompanying the launch of the new<br>plant in Serbia.|
|Denka|4061.T|Sell|Atsushi Ikeda|Key upside risks include greater-than-expected LiB demand growth, a tighter chloroprene rubber supply/demand balance, and stronger-than-expected<br>yen depreciation.|
|Mitsui Chemicals Inc.|4183.T|Neutral|Atsushi Ikeda|Key upside/downside risks: Rising/falling raw material costs (crude oil, etc.), improving/deteriorating market conditions, yen depreciation/appreciation,<br>easing/intensifying competitive environment, and an unexpected slowdown/expansion in demand.|
|Yamaha Motor|7272.T|Buy|Kota Yuzawa|Key risks include (1) progress with electrification in the motorcycle business and intensifying competition in battery sourcing, (2) a slowdown in marine<br>demand in the event of a US economic slowdown, and (3) intensifying technological competition in molding.|
|Daicel|4202.T|Buy|Atsushi Ikeda|Key risks: Earnings deterioration resulting from greater-than-expected yen appreciation, weaker-than-expected automobile demand, higher input costs,<br>and filter tow prices falling below our assumptions.|
|Fujikura|5803.T|Buy|Ryo Harada|Telecommunications: A delay in benefits from hyperscaler investment, a prolonged restraint in telecom carrier investment, and competitors in high-density<br>optical fiber cables catching up with Fujikura. Electronics: A greater-than-expected slowdown in the smartphone market and/or more intense competition.<br>Automotive products: Automobile production volume undershooting our assumptions. Companywide: Forex swings.|
|Furukawa Electric|5801.T|Sell|Ryo Harada|Communication solutions: Sharp improvement in the optical fiber business, especially in productivity at the company’s US plant, narrowing the margin gap<br>with competitors, acquisition of new customers in the optical fiber cable business, including hyperscalers. Energy infrastructure: Growth in orders for high-<br>voltage cables, acceleration in HVDC-related development, enabling the company to secure more projects. Electronics & automotive systems: Recovery<br>in auto production volume. Companywide: Yen depreciation, margin improvement fueled by selectivity and concentration in individual businesses.|
|KOKUSAI ELECTRIC|6525.T|Neutral|Shuhei Nakamura|Greater-/smaller-than-expected changes in investment at key customers, additional changes in export controls, and changes in the competitive landscape<br>due to strategic changes at competitors.<br>|
|SWCC|5805.T|Buy|Ryo Harada|~~Energy & infrastructure segment: The balancing out of supply and demand for wires/cables and power equipment in Japan, resulting in lower selling~~<br>prices; a lack of progress with the further leveling of construction work and improvement of personnel allocation efficiency, resulting in slower-than-<br>expected profit margin improvement; an influx of foreign workers significantly alleviating the shortage of construction workers in Japan. Electronic<br>equipment & components segment: A slower-than-expected shift to EVs by the company's customers, leading to lower demand; significant declines in<br>automobile production volume, including EVs; increases in prices of materials such as copper, with the company unable to pass these increases on to<br>customers. Communication & industrial devices segment: Sharp declines in optical fiber cable selling prices due to a large supply of inexpensive products<br>from China, India, and other countries, and profitability deteriorating as a result; home appliance sales in China and Japan falling short of expectations;<br>acceleration in the trend toward a paperless society, resulting in a steeper than expected decline in sales of printer rollers. Company-wide: The<br>implementation of large-scale growth investments aimed at furthering overseas expansion in the electronic equipment & components and communication<br>& industrial devices segments, with returns on these investments falling short of expectations and significantly impacting company-wide margins; yen<br>~~appreciation~~|
|GS Yuasa Corp.|6674.T|Sell|Kota Yuzawa|Risks include upside to earnings from localized improvement in supply/demand for EV lithium-ion batteries, an increase in the residual value of existing<br>businesses due to a slowdown in BEV penetration rates, and the easing of lead regulations.|
|Sumitomo Electric Industries|5802.T|Neutral|Ryo Harada|Automotive segment: Changes in auto production volume and progress/a lack of progress reflecting component/material costs in selling prices.<br>Infocommunications segment: Longer-/shorter-than-expected inventory adjustments accompanying a slowdown in capex at hyperscalers, and competitors<br>catching up in the ultra-high density optical fiber cable business. Environment & energy segment: Challenges procuring components and hiring workers<br>and delays in new construction/upgrades in various types of power infrastructure, or faster-/slower-than-expected earnings contributions related to the<br>Japanese government’s clean energy strategy. Industrial material & others segment: A recovery/slowdown in demand for ultra-hard tools due to a<br>macroeconomic upturn/downturn, and lower/higher manufacturing costs for sintered parts and other products due to falling/rising energy prices.<br>Companywide: Forex swings, falling/elevated material costs.|
|Nippon Shokubai|4114.T|Sell|Atsushi Ikeda|Key risks are stronger-than-expected SAP supply/demand and prices and decreases in raw material prices.|
|Japan Material|6055.T|Buy|Takeru Adachi|Key downside risks include (1) weaker profitability in “initial” businesses due to elevated material prices, (2) project delays, and (3) higher labor costs.|
|Ulvac|6728.T|Buy|Shuhei Nakamura|Slower-than-expected improvement in margins as a result of delayed orders timing, a greater-than-expected cool-down in FPD capex, and a deterioration<br>in market conditions for non-core businesses.|
|Rohm|6963.T|Neutral|Daiki Takayama|Key risks include a further upturn/downturn in demand from the consumer electronics sector, higher/lower competitive intensity/oversupply or undersupply<br>in the SiC space, delays in productivity improvement, and yen appreciation/depreciation.|
|Hoshizaki Corp.|6465.T|Buy|Yuichiro, Isayama|Risks include a renewed decline in the Japan business, especially a falloff in capex demand in the restaurant industry; a downturn in sales prices leading<br>to gross margin erosion; input cost increases leading to gross margin erosion; and absence of proactive change in cash allocation, including shareholder<br>returns policy.|
|Organo Corp.|6368.T|Buy|Takeru Adachi|Key risks include project delays, a deep/long-term decline in semiconductor investment demand, margin deterioration accompanying business expansion<br>in North America, opportunity losses generated by supply shortages, and longer-than-expected project time frames in the construction business stemming<br>from revisions to the Labor Standards Act, which came into effect from April 2024.|
|Nexon|3659.T|Sell|Minami Munakata|Key upside risks to our target price are: (1) Dungeon & Fighter IP: If content development and operations for Chinese users were to progress as a result<br>of this joint development with Tencent, sales of the Dungeon & Fighter IP could recover more than we expect. (2) New titles: We have already factored a<br>certain degree of contribution from new titles into our earnings forecasts. However, if Nexon were to produce a triple-A hit title in PC/console games or<br>mobile games, earnings could exceed our forecasts. (3) Capital allocation: If the company were to implement larger-than-expected share buybacks or<br>dividend increases, this we think this could push up the share price.|
|Meidensha|6508.T|Neutral|Ryo Harada|Power infrastructure: Normalization of project delays/further delays caused by worker shortages in Japan and component procurement difficulties, or<br>overseas business growth or business improvement/worsening in low-margin regions, such as India. Mobility & electrical components: An<br>increase/decrease in auto production volume, an increase/decrease in sales of vehicle models equipped with EV motors/inverters, or tailwinds/headwinds<br>from a stronger/weaker-than-expected recovery in the semiconductor production equipment (SPE) market. Companywide: Yen depreciation/appreciation.|
|Capcom|9697.T|Buy|Minami Munakata|Key downside risks to our target price are (1) Pipeline: If the release of major titles is delayed, this could introduce volatility to the annual pipeline and<br>lead to downside risk to new title sales volume. (2) Impairment: If user preferences change, this could lead to the cancellation of content development<br>and/or the booking of large impairment losses due to weak performance of new titles. (3) Erosion of IP Value: If the company excessively focuses on<br>game software pricing strategies, this could lead to a steeper-than-expected decline in unit prices, particularly for old titles, eroding IP value.|
|Unipres Corp.|5949.T|Sell|Kota Yuzawa|Key risks include (1) improvement in Nissan's China business leading to a recovery in Unipres’ earnings, (2) better-than-expected performance in the NA<br>market due to an increase in the US fleet sales, (3) improvement in FCF through capex peak-out and an active shareholder return policy, and (4) the<br>delayed uptake of GigaPress casting technology.|
|Daifuku Co.|6383.T|Buy|Yuichiro, Isayama|Key downside risks include slower investment from the tech, e-commerce, and automobile industries.|
|Fujimi Inc.|5384.T|Sell|Atsushi Ikeda|The main upside risks include stronger-than-expected semiconductor demand, lower-than-expected fixed costs, and yen depreciation.|
|Nissan Motor|7201.T|Neutral|Kota Yuzawa|Key risks include yen appreciation/depreciation, a correction/rebound in China sales, and deterioration/improvement in the earnings environment for the<br>sales finance business.|
|CKD Corp.|6407.T|Buy|Yuichiro, Isayama|Downside risks include weaker-than-expected semiconductor demand, a sharp rise in input costs, faster-than-expected increased in fixed costs.|
|Toray Industries|3402.T|Buy|Atsushi Ikeda|(1) Sharp deterioration in the outlook for civil aviation demand, a key driver of earnings in the carbon fiber composite materials segment. (2) ABS resin<br>margins worsening sharply vs. our assumptions. (3) Forex swings.|
|Subaru Corp.|7270.T|Neutral|Kota Yuzawa|Risks include yen appreciation/depreciation, stricter/milder EV-related regulatory shifts in the US, and deterioration/improvement in the US sales finance<br>environment.|
|Kuraray|3405.T|Buy|Atsushi Ikeda|Weaker-than-expected earnings in (1) the optical-use PVA film business, (2) the EVAL business, or (3) the activated carbon business.|
|Isuzu Motors|7202.T|Buy|Kota Yuzawa|Key risks include a decline in truck demand resulting from falling commodity prices, yen appreciation, deterioration in Thailand sales finance activities,<br>and costs associated with US auto-related tariffs.|
|SMC|6273.T|Buy|Yuichiro, Isayama|Risks include a downturn in capex sentiment in the auto and tech industries, key client industries.|
|Harmonic Drive Systems Inc.|6324.T|Buy|Yuichiro, Isayama|Downside risks include (1) weaker capex appetite in tech industries, mainly smartphones and semiconductors, (2) greater commitment to the lower-<br>margin auto components business, and (3) less focus on shareholder returns and dialogue with capital markets.|
|Sony Group|6758.T|Buy|Minami Munakata|Key downside risks to our target price include: (1) G&NS business: (i) Lower-than-expected PS5 hardware unit sales; (ii) lower-than-expected revenue<br>per console unit due to delays in the launch of new software, live service games, and downloadable content (DLC) from first and third parties, or weaker-<br>than-expected performance of these offerings; and (iii) deterioration in hardware profitability due to higher promotion expenses or component costs. (2)<br>Pictures business: Slower-than-expected growth in paying subscribers at anime streaming platform Crunchyroll, which we consider a key driver of<br>earnings in this segment, or higher-than-expected promotion and marketing expenses. (3) I&SS business: Slower growth in the market for CMOS image<br>sensors for mobile devices, ASP declines due to intensifying competition (particularly from Chinese companies), or deterioration in product yields due to<br>increasing manufacturing difficulty accompanying performance improvements in CMOS image sensors.|
|Square Enix Holdings|9684.T|Sell|Minami Munakata|Key upside risks to our target price are: (1) HD game pipeline: We currently assume no major title launches that are likely to record annual shipments of<br>more than 5 mn units in the short term, but new AAA titles could be announced and released, driving HD game earnings. (2)Mobile game performance:<br>We assume that mobile game sales will continue on a downward trend. However, a major new title could be launched, and sales in this business could<br>shift to an upward trend sooner than we expect. (3)Structural reforms: We expect meaningful benefits from structural reforms to start emerging from<br>FY3/27, but margin improvement in the game business could occur earlier than we assume, and earnings could enter a period of significant expansion.|
|Nippon Paint Holdings|4612.T|Neutral|Atsushi Ikeda|Key risks (+/-) include changes in consumer sentiment in China and sharp input price swings.|
|Kyocera|6971.T|Buy|Daiki Takayama|Key risks include slower-than-expected progress on planned management changes, inefficient investment or deployment of surplus capital, a delayed<br>cycle recovery, and yen appreciation.|
|Bridgestone|5108.T|Buy|Kota Yuzawa|Key risks include a decline in driving distances due to higher gasoline prices, yen appreciation, and product mix deterioration due to a rapid recovery in<br>new vehicle production, overcapacity, and falling demand for mining tires.|
|JEOL|6951.T|Buy|Shuhei Nakamura|Potential for yen appreciation, tighter restrictions on exports to China, a drop in multi-beam mask writer market share, and reduction of government<br>budgets for academia and life science fields in key markets.|
|Nomura Micro Science|6254.T|Neutral|Takeru Adachi|Key upside/downside risks include: acceleration/delay of Samsung’s capital investment, higher/lower labor costs, production of ultrapure water in Korea.|
|CyberAgent|4751.T|Neutral|Minami Munakata|Key upside/downside risks to our target price are: (1) Game business: Earnings in the game business could exceed/fall short of our estimates depending<br>on the performance of new titles, in addition to the momentum of existing major titles.(2) Media & IP business: Segment profits could exceed/fall short of<br>our estimates depending on the pace of earnings improvement at ABEMA and trends in IP-related businesses such as anime production. (3) Internet<br>advertising business: The pace of share gain could exceed/fall short of expectations. The timing of meaningful profit contributions from the DX business,<br>which is currently in an upfront investment phase, could also be earlier/later than we expect.|
|Sumitomo Rubber Industries|5110.T|Buy|Kota Yuzawa|Key risks include delays in restructuring, higher raw material prices, lower tire prices, and increased balance sheet burden due to the acquisition of the<br>Dunlop brand.|
|Honda Motor|7267.T|Buy|Kota Yuzawa|Downside risks include yen appreciation, a sharp rise in raw material prices, weaker-than-expected sales of new vehicles, inefficiency in multiple EV<br>projects, and margin deterioration in the China business.|
|Pan Pacific International Holdings|7532.T|Buy|Sho Kawano|Difficulties operating large-scale UNY stores (PPIH specializes in operating formats in the 3,000-5,000m² range and thus could find managing UNY's<br>10,000m² format a challenge)|
|Asics Corp.|7936.T|Buy(CL)|Sho Kawano|The relaxation of efforts to achieve a robust cost structure, an unexpected slowdown in the performance running category, and lower-than-expected sales<br>potential for athleisure shoes (such as SPS/OT) on an earlier-than-expected end to the boom in their sales|
|Shiseido|4911.T|Neutral|Takashi Miyazaki|Higher-/lower-than-expected sales growth, margin improvement/deterioration in the China market, market demand ratio growth/declines in the medium-<br>price range, a rise/fall in the domestic e-commerce ratio, and one-off gains and expenses accompanying structural reforms.|
|Kirin Holdings|2503.T|Sell|Takashi Miyazaki|Higher sales volume, higher ASP, improved overseas business conditions, and synergies with investees and profits in focus businesses.|


Source: Goldman Sachs Global Investment Research


25 May 2025 22


Goldman Sachs Japan Export Tracker

## Disclosure Appendix


**Reg AC**


We, Daiki Takayama, Yuichiro Isayama, Kota Yuzawa, Sho Kawano, Ryo Harada, Takeru Adachi, Shuhei Nakamura, Atsushi Ikeda, Chikai Tanaka, CFA,
Minami Munakata, Takashi Miyazaki and Mitsuhiro Icho, hereby certify that all of the views expressed in this report accurately reflect our personal
views about the subject company or companies and its or their securities. We also certify that no part of our compensation was, is or will be, directly or
indirectly, related to the specific recommendations or views expressed in this report.


Unless otherwise stated, the individuals listed on the cover page of this report are analysts in Goldman Sachs’ Global Investment Research division.


**GS Factor Profile**
The Goldman Sachs Factor Profile provides investment context for a stock by comparing key attributes to the market (i.e. our universe of rated stocks)
and its sector peers. The four key attributes depicted are: Growth, Financial Returns, Multiple (e.g. valuation) and Integrated (a composite of Growth,
Financial Returns and Multiple). Growth, Financial Returns and Multiple are calculated by using normalized ranks for specific metrics for each stock. The
normalized ranks for the metrics are then averaged and converted into percentiles for the relevant attribute. The precise calculation of each metric may
vary depending on the fiscal year, industry and region, but the standard approach is as follows:


**Growth** is based on a stock’s forward-looking sales growth, EBITDA growth and EPS growth (for financial stocks, only EPS and sales growth), with a
higher percentile indicating a higher growth company. **Financial Returns** is based on a stock’s forward-looking ROE, ROCE and CROCI (for financial
stocks, only ROE), with a higher percentile indicating a company with higher financial returns. **Multiple** is based on a stock’s forward-looking P/E, P/B,
price/dividend (P/D), EV/EBITDA, EV/FCF and EV/Debt Adjusted Cash Flow (DACF) (for financial stocks, only P/E, P/B and P/D), with a higher percentile
indicating a stock trading at a higher multiple. The **Integrated** percentile is calculated as the average of the Growth percentile, Financial Returns
percentile and (100% - Multiple percentile).


Financial Returns and Multiple use the Goldman Sachs analyst forecasts at the fiscal year-end at least three quarters in the future. Growth uses inputs
for the fiscal year at least seven quarters in the future compared with the year at least three quarters in the future (on a per-share basis for all metrics).


For a more detailed description of how we calculate the GS Factor Profile, please contact your GS representative.


**M&A Rank**
Across our global coverage, we examine stocks using an M&A framework, considering both qualitative factors and quantitative factors (which may vary
across sectors and regions) to incorporate the potential that certain companies could be acquired. We then assign a M&A rank as a means of scoring
companies under our rated coverage from 1 to 3, with 1 representing high (30%-50%) probability of the company becoming an acquisition target, 2
representing medium (15%-30%) probability and 3 representing low (0%-15%) probability. For companies ranked 1 or 2, in line with our standard
departmental guidelines we incorporate an M&A component into our target price. M&A rank of 3 is considered immaterial and therefore does not
factor into our price target, and may or may not be discussed in research.


**Quantum**
Quantum is Goldman Sachs’ proprietary database providing access to detailed financial statement histories, forecasts and ratios. It can be used for
in-depth analysis of a single company, or to make comparisons between companies in different sectors and markets.


**Disclosures**
**Financial advisory disclosure**
Goldman Sachs and/or one of its affiliates is acting as a financial advisor in connection with an announced strategic matter involving the following
company or one of its affiliates: Sony Group Corporation


**The rating(s) for Hirose Electric, Kyocera, Rohm, TDK and Taiyo Yuden is/are relative to the other companies in its/their coverage universe:**
Alps Alpine, Hirose Electric, IRISO Electronics, Ibiden, Japan Aviation Electronics Industry, Kohoku Kogyo, Kyocera, MARUWA, Mabuchi Motor, Maxell
Ltd., MinebeaMitsumi Inc., Murata Mfg., NGK Insulators, Nichicon, Nidec, Nippon Ceramic, Niterra, Nitto Denko, Pacific Industrial, Renesas
Electronics, Rohm, TDK, Taiyo Yuden


**The rating(s) for Daicel, Denka, Fujimi Inc., Kansai Paint, Kuraray, Mitsubishi Gas Chemical, Mitsui Chemicals Inc., Nippon Paint Holdings,**
**Nippon Shokubai, Tokyo Ohka Kogyo and Toray Industries is/are relative to the other companies in its/their coverage universe:** Asahi Kasei,
Daicel, Denka, Fujimi Inc., Kansai Paint, Kuraray, Mitsubishi Gas Chemical, Mitsui Chemicals Inc., Nippon Paint Holdings, Nippon Shokubai, SUMCO,
Shin-Etsu Chemical, Tokyo Ohka Kogyo, Toray Industries, Tri Chemical Laboratories Inc., Zeon


**The rating(s) for Fujikura, Furukawa Electric, Meidensha, SWCC and Sumitomo Electric Industries is/are relative to the other companies in**
**its/their coverage universe:** Daihen, Fuji Electric Co., Fujikura, Furukawa Electric, Hitachi, Meidensha, Mitsubishi Electric, Panasonic Holdings, SWCC,
Sumitomo Electric Industries


**The rating(s) for JEOL, Kokusai Electric and Ulvac is/are relative to the other companies in its/their coverage universe:** Advantest, DISCO,
HOYA, JEOL, Kokusai Electric, Lasertec, SCREEN Holdings, Tokyo Electron, Tokyo Seimitsu, Ulvac


**The rating(s) for Bridgestone, GS Yuasa Corp., Honda Motor, Isuzu Motors, Mazda Motor, Mitsubishi Motors, Nifco Inc., Nissan Motor, Subaru**
**Corp., Sumitomo Rubber Industries, Suzuki Motor, TOYO TIRE, Unipres Corp. and Yamaha Motor is/are relative to the other companies in**
**its/their coverage universe:** Aisin, Bridgestone, Denso, GS Yuasa Corp., Honda Motor, Isuzu Motors, Mazda Motor, Mitsubishi Motors, Mitsui
High-tec Inc., Nifco Inc., Nissan Motor, Subaru Corp., Sumitomo Metal Mining, Sumitomo Rubber Industries, Suzuki Motor, TOYO TIRE, Toyota
Boshoku, Toyota Industries, Toyota Motor, Unipres Corp., Yamaha Motor


**The rating(s) for Capcom, CyberAgent, Nexon, Sony Group and Square Enix Holdings is/are relative to the other companies in its/their**
**coverage universe:** Bandai Namco Holdings, Capcom, CyberAgent, Konami Group, LY Corp., Nexon, Nintendo, Oriental Land, Recruit Holdings, Sony
Group, Square Enix Holdings


**The rating(s) for CKD Corp., Daifuku Co., Harmonic Drive Systems Inc., Hitachi Construction Machinery, Hoshizaki Corp., IHI, Japan Material,**
**Nomura Micro Science, Organo Corp. and SMC is/are relative to the other companies in its/their coverage universe:** CKD Corp., Daifuku Co.,
Daikin Industries, Fanuc, Harmonic Drive Systems Inc., Hitachi Construction Machinery, Hoshizaki Corp., IHI, Japan Material, Kawasaki Heavy
Industries, Keyence, Komatsu, Kubota, Kurita Water Industries, Makita, Misumi Group, Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Nomura Micro Science, Okuma
Corp., Omron Corp., Organo Corp., SMC, THK, Takeuchi MFG, Yaskawa Electric


25 May 2025 23


Goldman Sachs Japan Export Tracker


**Company-specific regulatory disclosures**
Compendium report: please see disclosures at https://www.gs.com/research/hedge.html. Disclosures applicable to the companies included in this
compendium can be found in the latest relevant published research


**Distribution of ratings/investment banking relationships**
Goldman Sachs Investment Research global Equity coverage universe

|Rating Distribution|Col2|Col3|
|---|---|---|
|Buy<br>Hold<br>Sell|Buy<br>Hold<br>Sell|Buy<br>Hold<br>Sell|
|49%|34%|17%|


|Investment Banking Relationships|Col2|Col3|
|---|---|---|
|Buy<br>Hold<br>Sell|Buy<br>Hold<br>Sell|Buy<br>Hold<br>Sell|
|63%|57%|42%|



As of April 1, 2025, Goldman Sachs Global Investment Research had investment ratings on 3,016 equity securities. Goldman Sachs assigns stocks as
Buys and Sells on various regional Investment Lists; stocks not so assigned are deemed Neutral. Such assignments equate to Buy, Hold and Sell for
the purposes of the above disclosure required by the FINRA Rules. See ‘Ratings, Coverage universe and related definitions’ below. The Investment
Banking Relationships chart reflects the percentage of subject companies within each rating category for whom Goldman Sachs has provided
investment banking services within the previous twelve months.


**Price target and rating history chart(s)**
Compendium report: please see disclosures at https://www.gs.com/research/hedge.html. Disclosures applicable to the companies included in this
compendium can be found in the latest relevant published research


**Regulatory disclosures**
**Disclosures required by United States laws and regulations**
See company-specific regulatory disclosures above for any of the following disclosures required as to companies referred to in this report: manager or
co-manager in a pending transaction; 1% or other ownership; compensation for certain services; types of client relationships; managed/co-managed
public offerings in prior periods; directorships; for equity securities, market making and/or specialist role. Goldman Sachs trades or may trade as a
principal in debt securities (or in related derivatives) of issuers discussed in this report.


The following are additional required disclosures: **Ownership and material conflicts of interest:** Goldman Sachs policy prohibits its analysts,
professionals reporting to analysts and members of their households from owning securities of any company in the analyst’s area of coverage.
**Analyst compensation:** Analysts are paid in part based on the profitability of Goldman Sachs, which includes investment banking revenues. **Analyst**
**as officer or director:** Goldman Sachs policy generally prohibits its analysts, persons reporting to analysts or members of their households from
serving as an officer, director or advisor of any company in the analyst’s area of coverage. **Non-U.S. Analysts:** Non-U.S. analysts may not be
associated persons of Goldman Sachs & Co. LLC and therefore may not be subject to FINRA Rule 2241 or FINRA Rule 2242 restrictions on
communications with subject company, public appearances and trading securities held by the analysts.


**Distribution of ratings:** See the distribution of ratings disclosure above. **Price chart:** See the price chart, with changes of ratings and price targets in
prior periods, above, or, if electronic format or if with respect to multiple companies which are the subject of this report, on the Goldman Sachs
website at https://www.gs.com/research/hedge.html.


**Additional disclosures required under the laws and regulations of jurisdictions other than the United States**
The following disclosures are those required by the jurisdiction indicated, except to the extent already made above pursuant to United States laws and
regulations. **Australia:** Goldman Sachs Australia Pty Ltd and its affiliates are not authorised deposit-taking institutions (as that term is defined in the
Banking Act 1959 (Cth)) in Australia and do not provide banking services, nor carry on a banking business, in Australia. This research, and any access to
it, is intended only for “wholesale clients” within the meaning of the Australian Corporations Act, unless otherwise agreed by Goldman Sachs. In
producing research reports, members of Global Investment Research of Goldman Sachs Australia may attend site visits and other meetings hosted by
the companies and other entities which are the subject of its research reports. In some instances the costs of such site visits or meetings may be met
in part or in whole by the issuers concerned if Goldman Sachs Australia considers it is appropriate and reasonable in the specific circumstances relating
to the site visit or meeting. To the extent that the contents of this document contains any financial product advice, it is general advice only and has
been prepared by Goldman Sachs without taking into account a client’s objectives, financial situation or needs. A client should, before acting on any
such advice, consider the appropriateness of the advice having regard to the client’s own objectives, financial situation and needs. A copy of certain
Goldman Sachs Australia and New Zealand disclosure of interests and a copy of Goldman Sachs’ Australian Sell-Side Research Independence Policy
Statement are available at: https://www.goldmansachs.com/disclosures/australia-new-zealand/index.html. **Brazil:** Disclosure information in relation to
CVM Resolution n. 20 is available at https://www.gs.com/worldwide/brazil/area/gir/index.html. Where applicable, the Brazil-registered analyst primarily
responsible for the content of this research report, as defined in Article 20 of CVM Resolution n. 20, is the first author named at the beginning of this
report, unless indicated otherwise at the end of the text. **Canada:** This information is being provided to you for information purposes only and is not,
and under no circumstances should be construed as, an advertisement, offering or solicitation by Goldman Sachs & Co. LLC for purchasers of
securities in Canada to trade in any Canadian security. Goldman Sachs & Co. LLC is not registered as a dealer in any jurisdiction in Canada under
applicable Canadian securities laws and generally is not permitted to trade in Canadian securities and may be prohibited from selling certain securities
and products in certain jurisdictions in Canada. If you wish to trade in any Canadian securities or other products in Canada please contact Goldman
Sachs Canada Inc., an affiliate of The Goldman Sachs Group Inc., or another registered Canadian dealer. **Hong Kong:** Further information on the
securities of covered companies referred to in this research may be obtained on request from Goldman Sachs (Asia) L.L.C. **India:** Further information
on the subject company or companies referred to in this research may be obtained from Goldman Sachs (India) Securities Private Limited, Research
Analyst - SEBI Registration Number INH000001493, 951-A, Rational House, Appasaheb Marathe Marg, Prabhadevi, Mumbai 400 025, India, Corporate
Identity Number U74140MH2006FTC160634, Phone +91 22 6616 9000, Fax +91 22 6616 9001. Goldman Sachs may beneficially own 1% or more of
the securities (as such term is defined in clause 2 (h) the Indian Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956) of the subject company or companies
referred to in this research report. Investment in securities market are subject to market risks. Read all the related documents carefully before
investing. Registration granted by SEBI and certification from NISM in no way guarantee performance of the intermediary or provide any assurance of
returns to investors. Goldman Sachs (India) Securities Private Limited compliance officer and investor grievance contact details can be found at this link:
https://publishing.gs.com/disclosures/hedge.html - /general/equity. **Japan:** See below. **Korea:** This research, and any access to it, is intended only for
“professional investors” within the meaning of the Financial Services and Capital Markets Act, unless otherwise agreed by Goldman Sachs. Further
information on the subject company or companies referred to in this research may be obtained from Goldman Sachs (Asia) L.L.C., Seoul Branch. **New**
**Zealand:** Goldman Sachs New Zealand Limited and its affiliates are neither “registered banks” nor “deposit takers” (as defined in the Reserve Bank of
New Zealand Act 1989) in New Zealand. This research, and any access to it, is intended for “wholesale clients” (as defined in the Financial Advisers Act
2008) unless otherwise agreed by Goldman Sachs. A copy of certain Goldman Sachs Australia and New Zealand disclosure of interests is available at:
https://www.goldmansachs.com/disclosures/australia-new-zealand/index.html. **Russia:** Research reports distributed in the Russian Federation are not


25 May 2025 24


Goldman Sachs Japan Export Tracker


advertising as defined in the Russian legislation, but are information and analysis not having product promotion as their main purpose and do not
provide appraisal within the meaning of the Russian legislation on appraisal activity. Research reports do not constitute a personalized investment
recommendation as defined in Russian laws and regulations, are not addressed to a specific client, and are prepared without analyzing the financial
circumstances, investment profiles or risk profiles of clients. Goldman Sachs assumes no responsibility for any investment decisions that may be taken
by a client or any other person based on this research report. **Singapore:** Goldman Sachs (Singapore) Pte. (Company Number: 198602165W), which is
regulated by the Monetary Authority of Singapore, accepts legal responsibility for this research, and should be contacted with respect to any matters
arising from, or in connection with, this research. **Taiwan:** This material is for reference only and must not be reprinted without permission. Investors
should carefully consider their own investment risk. Investment results are the responsibility of the individual investor. **United Kingdom:** Persons who
would be categorized as retail clients in the United Kingdom, as such term is defined in the rules of the Financial Conduct Authority, should read this
research in conjunction with prior Goldman Sachs research on the covered companies referred to herein and should refer to the risk warnings that have
been sent to them by Goldman Sachs International. A copy of these risks warnings, and a glossary of certain financial terms used in this report, are
available from Goldman Sachs International on request.


**European Union and United Kingdom:** Disclosure information in relation to Article 6 (2) of the European Commission Delegated Regulation (EU)
(2016/958) supplementing Regulation (EU) No 596/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council (including as that Delegated Regulation is
implemented into United Kingdom domestic law and regulation following the United Kingdom’s departure from the European Union and the European
Economic Area) with regard to regulatory technical standards for the technical arrangements for objective presentation of investment
recommendations or other information recommending or suggesting an investment strategy and for disclosure of particular interests or indications of
conflicts of interest is available at https://www.gs.com/disclosures/europeanpolicy.html which states the European Policy for Managing Conflicts of
Interest in Connection with Investment Research.


**Japan:** Goldman Sachs Japan Co., Ltd. is a Financial Instrument Dealer registered with the Kanto Financial Bureau under registration number Kinsho
69, and a member of Japan Securities Dealers Association, Financial Futures Association of Japan Type II Financial Instruments Firms Association, The
Investment Trusts Association, Japan, and Japan Investment Advisers Association. Sales and purchase of equities are subject to commission
pre-determined with clients plus consumption tax. See company-specific disclosures as to any applicable disclosures required by Japanese stock
exchanges, the Japanese Securities Dealers Association or the Japanese Securities Finance Company.


**Ratings, coverage universe and related definitions**
**Buy (B), Neutral (N), Sell (S)** Analysts recommend stocks as Buys or Sells for inclusion on various regional Investment Lists. Being assigned a Buy or
Sell on an Investment List is determined by a stock’s total return potential relative to its coverage universe. Any stock not assigned as a Buy or a Sell on
an Investment List with an active rating (i.e., a stock that is not Rating Suspended, Not Rated, Early-Stage Biotech, Coverage Suspended or Not
Covered), is deemed Neutral. Each region manages Regional Conviction Lists, which are selected from Buy rated stocks on the respective region’s
Investment Lists and represent investment recommendations focused on the size of the total return potential and/or the likelihood of the realization of
the return across their respective areas of coverage. The addition or removal of stocks from such Conviction Lists are managed by the Investment
Review Committee or other designated committee in each respective region and do not represent a change in the analysts’ investment rating for such
stocks.


**Total return potential** represents the upside or downside differential between the current share price and the price target, including all paid or
anticipated dividends, expected during the time horizon associated with the price target. Price targets are required for all covered stocks. The total
return potential, price target and associated time horizon are stated in each report adding or reiterating an Investment List membership.


**Coverage Universe:** A list of all stocks in each coverage universe is available by primary analyst, stock and coverage universe at
https://www.gs.com/research/hedge.html.


**Not Rated (NR).** The investment rating, target price and earnings estimates (where relevant) are removed pursuant to Goldman Sachs policy when
Goldman Sachs is acting in an advisory capacity in a merger or in a strategic transaction involving this company, when there are legal, regulatory or
policy constraints due to Goldman Sachs’ involvement in a transaction, and in certain other circumstances. **Early-Stage Biotech (ES).** An investment
rating and a target price are not assigned pursuant to Goldman Sachs policy when this company neither has a drug, treatment or medical device that
has passed a Phase II clinical trial nor a license to distribute a post-Phase II drug, treatment or medical device. **Rating Suspended (RS).** Goldman
Sachs Research has suspended the investment rating and price target for this stock, because there is not a sufficient fundamental basis for
determining an investment rating or target price. The previous investment rating and target price, if any, are no longer in effect for this stock and should
not be relied upon. **Coverage Suspended (CS).** Goldman Sachs has suspended coverage of this company. **Not Covered (NC).** Goldman Sachs does
not cover this company.


**Global product; distributing entities**
Goldman Sachs Global Investment Research produces and distributes research products for clients of Goldman Sachs on a global basis. Analysts based
in Goldman Sachs offices around the world produce research on industries and companies, and research on macroeconomics, currencies, commodities
and portfolio strategy. This research is disseminated in Australia by Goldman Sachs Australia Pty Ltd (ABN 21 006 797 897); in Brazil by Goldman Sachs
do Brasil Corretora de Títulos e Valores Mobiliários S.A.; Public Communication Channel Goldman Sachs Brazil: 0800 727 5764 and / or
contatogoldmanbrasil@gs.com. Available Weekdays (except holidays), from 9am to 6pm. Canal de Comunicação com o Público Goldman Sachs Brasil:
0800 727 5764 e/ou contatogoldmanbrasil@gs.com. Horário de funcionamento: segunda-feira à sexta-feira (exceto feriados), das 9h às 18h; in Canada
by Goldman Sachs & Co. LLC; in Hong Kong by Goldman Sachs (Asia) L.L.C.; in India by Goldman Sachs (India) Securities Private Ltd.; in Japan by
Goldman Sachs Japan Co., Ltd.; in the Republic of Korea by Goldman Sachs (Asia) L.L.C., Seoul Branch; in New Zealand by Goldman Sachs New
Zealand Limited; in Russia by OOO Goldman Sachs; in Singapore by Goldman Sachs (Singapore) Pte. (Company Number: 198602165W); and in the
United States of America by Goldman Sachs & Co. LLC. Goldman Sachs International has approved this research in connection with its distribution in
the United Kingdom.


Goldman Sachs International (“GSI”), authorised by the Prudential Regulation Authority (“PRA”) and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority
(“FCA”) and the PRA, has approved this research in connection with its distribution in the United Kingdom.


**European Economic Area:** GSI, authorised by the PRA and regulated by the FCA and the PRA, disseminates research in the following jurisdictions
within the European Economic Area: the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, Italy, the Kingdom of Belgium, the Kingdom of Denmark, the Kingdom of
Norway, the Republic of Finland and the Republic of Ireland; GSI - Succursale de Paris (Paris branch) which is authorised by the French Autorité de
contrôle prudentiel et de resolution (“ACPR”) and regulated by the Autorité de contrôle prudentiel et de resolution and the Autorité des marches
financiers (“AMF”) disseminates research in France; GSI - Sucursal en España (Madrid branch) authorized in Spain by the Comisión Nacional del
Mercado de Valores disseminates research in the Kingdom of Spain; GSI - Sweden Bankfilial (Stockholm branch) is authorized by the SFSA as a “third
country branch” in accordance with Chapter 4, Section 4 of the Swedish Securities and Market Act (Sw. lag (2007:528) om värdepappersmarknaden)
disseminates research in the Kingdom of Sweden; Goldman Sachs Bank Europe SE (“GSBE”) is a credit institution incorporated in Germany and, within
the Single Supervisory Mechanism, subject to direct prudential supervision by the European Central Bank and in other respects supervised by German
Federal Financial Supervisory Authority (Bundesanstalt für Finanzdienstleistungsaufsicht, BaFin) and Deutsche Bundesbank and disseminates research
in the Federal Republic of Germany and those jurisdictions within the European Economic Area where GSI is not authorised to disseminate research


25 May 2025 25


Goldman Sachs Japan Export Tracker


and additionally, GSBE, Copenhagen Branch filial af GSBE, Tyskland, supervised by the Danish Financial Authority disseminates research in the Kingdom
of Denmark; GSBE - Sucursal en España (Madrid branch) subject (to a limited extent) to local supervision by the Bank of Spain disseminates research in
the Kingdom of Spain; GSBE - Succursale Italia (Milan branch) to the relevant applicable extent, subject to local supervision by the Bank of Italy (Banca
d’Italia) and the Italian Companies and Exchange Commission (Commissione Nazionale per le Società e la Borsa “Consob”) disseminates research in
Italy; GSBE - Succursale de Paris (Paris branch), supervised by the AMF and by the ACPR disseminates research in France; and GSBE - Sweden
Bankfilial (Stockholm branch), to a limited extent, subject to local supervision by the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority (Finansinpektionen)
disseminates research in the Kingdom of Sweden.


**General disclosures**
This research is for our clients only. Other than disclosures relating to Goldman Sachs, this research is based on current public information that we
consider reliable, but we do not represent it is accurate or complete, and it should not be relied on as such. The information, opinions, estimates and
forecasts contained herein are as of the date hereof and are subject to change without prior notification. We seek to update our research as
appropriate, but various regulations may prevent us from doing so. Other than certain industry reports published on a periodic basis, the large majority
of reports are published at irregular intervals as appropriate in the analyst’s judgment.


Goldman Sachs conducts a global full-service, integrated investment banking, investment management, and brokerage business. We have investment
banking and other business relationships with a substantial percentage of the companies covered by Global Investment Research. Goldman Sachs &
Co. LLC, the United States broker dealer, is a member of SIPC (https://www.sipc.org).


Our salespeople, traders, and other professionals may provide oral or written market commentary or trading strategies to our clients and principal
trading desks that reflect opinions that are contrary to the opinions expressed in this research. Our asset management area, principal trading desks and
investing businesses may make investment decisions that are inconsistent with the recommendations or views expressed in this research.


The analysts named in this report may have from time to time discussed with our clients, including Goldman Sachs salespersons and traders, or may
discuss in this report, trading strategies that reference catalysts or events that may have a near-term impact on the market price of the equity securities
discussed in this report, which impact may be directionally counter to the analyst’s published price target expectations for such stocks. Any such
trading strategies are distinct from and do not affect the analyst’s fundamental equity rating for such stocks, which rating reflects a stock’s return
potential relative to its coverage universe as described herein.


We and our affiliates, officers, directors, and employees will from time to time have long or short positions in, act as principal in, and buy or sell, the
securities or derivatives, if any, referred to in this research, unless otherwise prohibited by regulation or Goldman Sachs policy.


The views attributed to third party presenters at Goldman Sachs arranged conferences, including individuals from other parts of Goldman Sachs, do not
necessarily reflect those of Global Investment Research and are not an official view of Goldman Sachs.


Any third party referenced herein, including any salespeople, traders and other professionals or members of their household, may have positions in the
products mentioned that are inconsistent with the views expressed by analysts named in this report.


This research is not an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy any security in any jurisdiction where such an offer or solicitation would be
illegal. It does not constitute a personal recommendation or take into account the particular investment objectives, financial situations, or needs of
individual clients. Clients should consider whether any advice or recommendation in this research is suitable for their particular circumstances and, if
appropriate, seek professional advice, including tax advice. The price and value of investments referred to in this research and the income from them
may fluctuate. Past performance is not a guide to future performance, future returns are not guaranteed, and a loss of original capital may occur.
Fluctuations in exchange rates could have adverse effects on the value or price of, or income derived from, certain investments.


Certain transactions, including those involving futures, options, and other derivatives, give rise to substantial risk and are not suitable for all investors.
Investors should review current options and futures disclosure documents which are available from Goldman Sachs sales representatives or at
https://www.theocc.com/about/publications/character-risks.jsp and https://www.fadocumentation.org/fa/regulatory—disclosures/fa—uniform—
futures—and—options—on—futures—risk—disclosures—booklet—pdf—version—2018. Transaction costs may be significant in option strategies
calling for multiple purchase and sales of options such as spreads. Supporting documentation will be supplied upon request.


**Differing Levels of Service provided by Global Investment Research:** The level and types of services provided to you by Goldman Sachs Global
Investment Research may vary as compared to that provided to internal and other external clients of GS, depending on various factors including your
individual preferences as to the frequency and manner of receiving communication, your risk profile and investment focus and perspective (e.g.,
marketwide, sector specific, long term, short term), the size and scope of your overall client relationship with GS, and legal and regulatory constraints.
As an example, certain clients may request to receive notifications when research on specific securities is published, and certain clients may request
that specific data underlying analysts’ fundamental analysis available on our internal client websites be delivered to them electronically through data
feeds or otherwise. No change to an analyst’s fundamental research views (e.g., ratings, price targets, or material changes to earnings estimates for
equity securities), will be communicated to any client prior to inclusion of such information in a research report broadly disseminated through electronic
publication to our internal client websites or through other means, as necessary, to all clients who are entitled to receive such reports.


All research reports are disseminated and available to all clients simultaneously through electronic publication to our internal client websites. Not all
research content is redistributed to our clients or available to third-party aggregators, nor is Goldman Sachs responsible for the redistribution of our
research by third party aggregators. For research, models or other data related to one or more securities, markets or asset classes (including related
services) that may be available to you, please contact your GS representative or go to https://research.gs.com.


Disclosure information is also available at https://www.gs.com/research/hedge.html or from Research Compliance, 200 West Street, New York, NY
10282.


**© 2025 Goldman Sachs.**


You are permitted to store, display, analyze, modify, reformat, and print the information made available to you via this service only for your own use.
You may not resell or reverse engineer this information to calculate or develop any index for disclosure and/or marketing or create any other derivative
works or commercial product(s), data or offering(s) without the express written consent of Goldman Sachs. You are not permitted to publish, transmit,
or otherwise reproduce this information, in whole or in part, in any format to any third party without the express written consent of Goldman Sachs.
This foregoing restriction includes, without limitation, using, extracting, downloading or retrieving this information, in whole or in part, to train or
finetune a machine learning or artificial intelligence system, or to provide or reproduce this information, in whole or in part, as a prompt or input to any
such system.


25 May 2025 26


